Christopher Brian Bridges (born September 11, 1977 in Champaign, Illinois), better known by his stage name Ludacris, is a Grammy award winning American rapper, SAG award winning actor and co-founder of the label Disturbing Tha Peace. He is the highest selling Southern hip hop solo artist of all time with over 15 million units sold in the United States and around 20 million records sold worldwide. He released his debut album Incognegro in 1999 and has since released a further seven albums. His ninth studio album, Ludaversal, will be released sometime in 2012.      Early years      Bridges began his music career as a radio personality and DJ as Chris Lova Lova on Hot 97, an urban radio station in Atlanta, Georgia. He made his recorded debut on “Phat Rabbit,” a track from Timbaland’s 1998 album Tim’s Bio: Life from the Basement. Although both Timbaland and Jermaine Dupri showed interest in signing Ludacris, he decided to release the album “Incognegro” independently in 1999. The album sold over 50,000 copies through the Atlanta based independent music distributor, Southern Music Distribution. The same year, he recorded the theme to the video game Madden NFL 2000. Scarface, an original member of the Geto Boys, signed Ludacris in 2000 to Def Jam Recordings, and created a new imprint, Def Jam South, around him.      Back for the First Time      Ludacris released his major label debut, Back for the First Time, in October 2000. The album reached as high as #4 on the charts, and was a major success. Ludacris made his mark on the industry with singles such as “Southern Hospitality” and “What’s Your Fantasy”, along with his first ever single “Phat Rabbit”, from 2 years prior. Back for the First Time was the beginning of Ludacris’s explosion to the top of the rap world.      Word of Mouf      Ludacris promptly completed his next album, Word Of Mouf and released it at the end of 2001. Its lead single, “Rollout (My Business)” was boycotted in many American video stations. Despite the controversy, the video was nominated for a 2003 VMA, and Luda performed it live at the awards’ pre-show. Ludacris also toured with Papa Roach in 2002 after the release of their sophomore album lovehatetragedy. Ludacris reached a new level of notoriety when TV’s Bill O’Reilly expressed outrage that Pepsi had hired Ludacris as a spokesman. O’Reilly repeatedly attacked Ludacris’s foul language and called for a nation- wide boycott of Pepsi, who then fired Ludacris and hired Ozzy Osbourne’s family instead.      Chicken-N-Beer      During the spring of 2003, Ludacris returned to the music scene after a brief hiatus with a new single, “Act A Fool” from the 2 Fast 2 Furious soundtrack. At around the same time, he released the lead single from his upcoming album, Chicken & Beer, called “P-Poppin” (short for “Pussy Poppin’”)