It has always been about the songs. SHeDAISY’s place in the music world begins with Kristyn Osborn’s songwriting, with her ability to probe her psyche and, by extension, ours. The fact that she and sisters Kelsi and Kassidy are equally adept at placing those songs in intriguing and memorable settings, at making them come alive in the studio and on stage, is the rest of the multi- platinum equation.      As their winding career path makes clear, though, nothing important is ever established or sustained without struggle and re-evaluation, without the willingness to adjust course now and then. Theirs has been a journey for which they have drawn strength from both success and misadventure, turning missteps into lessons and challenge into triumph. The result is a hard-won artistic maturity, and the CD that embodies the latest phase of their journey, Fortuneteller’s Melody, represents a liberating step forward.      The process began, as always, with Kristyn’s songwriting. As Kelsi and Kassidy took to the road for a radio tour accompanying the release of Sweet Right Here, a rebound record which went gold and gave the trio renewed momentum, Kristyn spent more than three months turning the stuff of life into art with the help of collaborators that included Don Schlitz and Sheryl Crow.      From there, though, everything was new. The trio chose to work with Grammy producer of the year and another Kristyn songwriting collaborator, John Shanks, known for his work with Melissa Etheridge, Keith Urban, Kelly Clarkson, Alanis Morissette, Bon Jovi and many others. In working with him, they re-invented the way they make records: instead of the meticulous planning that went into earlier efforts, they worked almost off-the-cuff.      “We would walk into the studio this time not knowing the song,” says Kristyn. “John and I would be finishing one in the other room then we’d go straight in and record it. Kassidy might learn it as I was finishing the lyric. We were allowing the songs themselves to take control, rather than our arrangements of the song.”      “It freaked me out because I love to be prepared,” says Kassidy. “With the other records, we would arrange songs for a month and then go into the studio totally ready, but I surprised myself this time. There’s freedom in this approach, and there’s something great and fresh about that.”      The result was a recording process that echoed the approach of songwriting.      “It forces you to draw from a place that’s beyond the surface,” says Kristyn. “You find things in yourself that you didn’t know were there. For Kassidy, it’s her voice. ‘Where are those licks going to come from?’ ‘Where is the soul going to come from in the music?’ John just made us find it.”      What held it all together was the consistency of voice in Kristyn’s writing, the nuanced look at life, love and redemption that made up the project’s songs.      “This is about relationships,” she says