Original Dixieland Jass Band (after mid-1917 spelling changed to Jazz) A Chicago that played the popular Dixieland Jazz style. A band which, in 1917, was the first ever to make a jazz recording. It was also the first jazz band to achieve widespread prominence. The Original Dixieland Jass Band are often known by their initials, the O.D.J.B.      The band consisted of 5 white musicians who had previously been playing in the Papa Jack Laine bands, a diverse and racially integrated collection of musicians who played for parades, dances, and advertising in New Orleans.      The O.D.J.B. were billed as the “Creators of Jazz”. Trumpeter Nick LaRocca convinced himself, in his old age, that this was literally true, but there is no evidence from the interviews and writings of the other O.D.J.B. members that the rest of the band ever considered it anything more than a snappy advertising slogan.      In early 1916 a promoter from Chicago, Illinois approached clarinetist Alcide Nunez and drummer Johnny Stein about bringing a New Orleans style band to Chicago, where a similar band led by trombonist Tom Brown was already enjoying success. They then assembled trombonist Eddie Edwards, pianist Henry Ragas and cornetist Frank Christian. Shortly before they were to leave, Christian backed out, and Nick LaRocca was hired as a last minute replacement.      On March 3, 1916 the musicians began their job at Schiller’s Cafe in Chicago under the name Stein’s Dixie Jass Band. The band was a hit and received offers of higher pay elsewhere. Since Stein as leader was the only musician under contract by name, the rest of the band broke off, sent to New Orleans for drummer Tony Sbarbaro, and on June 5 started playing renamed as The Dixie Jass Band. LaRocca and Nunez had personality conflicts, and on October 30 Tom Brown’s Band and the ODJB mutually agreed to switch clarinetists, bringing Larry Shields into the Original Dixieland Jass Band. The band attracted the attention of Max Hart, who booked the band in New York City. At the start of 1917 the band began an engagement playing for dancing at Reisenweber’s Cafe in Manhattan.      While a couple of other New Orleans bands had passed through New York City slightly earlier, they were part of Vaudeville acts. The O.D.J.B., on the other hand, played for dancing and were hence the first “jass” band to get a following of fans in New York, and then record at a time when the USA’s recording industry was almost entirely centered in New York and New Jersey.      Shortly after arriving in New York they were offered a chance per a letter dated January 29, 1917 to audition for the Columbia Graphaphone Company which took place on Wednesday, January 31, 1917. Nothing came of this audition.      They then recorded two sides (“Livery Stable Blues” and “Dixie Jass Band One Step”) on February 26, 1917 for the Victor Talking Machine Company. The record with these titles came out the following month