OutKast is an American [hip-hop](http://www.last.fm/tag/hip-hop) duo from Atlanta, Georgia, United States. The duo is one of the most successful hip-hop groups of all time, having received six Grammy Awards. Over 25 million copies have been sold of Outkast’s seven releases: six studio albums—including one double album—and a greatest hits release.      The group’s original musical style was a mixture of Dirty South and G-Funk. Since then funk, soul, pop, electronic music, rock, spoken word poetry, jazz, and blues have been added to the group’s musical palette. The duo consists of Atlanta native André “[Andre 3000](http://www.last.fm/music/Andre+3000)” Benjamin (formerly known as Dré) and Georgia-born Antwan “[Big Boi](http://www.last.fm/music/Big+Boi)” Patton.      Speakerboxxx/The Love Below is one of only four hip-hop albums to be certified Diamond in the U.S. for shipping over 10 million units. Along with Outkast’s commercial success, they have maintained an experimental approach in their music and are widely praised for their originality and artistic content.      Benjamin and Patton met while attending Tri-Cities High School, a Visual and Performing Arts School. Benjamin’s parents were divorced and he was living with his father. Meanwhile, Patton had to move with his four brothers and six sisters from Savannah to Atlanta. Benjamin and Patton eventually teamed up and were pursued by Organized Noize, a group of local producers who would later make hits for TLC. The duo initially wanted to be called “2 Shades Deep” or “The Misfits”, but because those names were already taken they later decided to use “OutKast” based on finding “outcast” as synonym for “misfit” in a dictionary. OutKast, Organized Noize, and schoolmates Goodie Mob formed the nucleus of the Dungeon Family organization.      OutKast signed to LaFace Records in 1992, becoming the label’s first hip hop act and making their first appearance on the remix of label mate TLC’s “What About Your Friends”. In 1993, they released their first single, “Player’s Ball”. The song’s funky style, much of it accomplished with live instrumentation, was a hit with audiences. “Player’s Ball” hit number-one on the Billboard Hot Rap Tracks chart.      Their debut album, Southernplayalisticadillacmuzik, was issued on April 26th, 1994. This initial effort is credited with laying the foundation for southern hip hop and is considered a classic by many hip hop aficionados. Every track on Southernplayalisticadillacmuzik was produced by Organized Noize and featured other members of the Dungeon Family. Follow-up singles included the title track and “Git Up Git Out”, a politically charged collaboration with Goodie Mob that was later sampled by Macy Gray for her 1999 hit “Do Something.” On this early material, both André and Big Boi contrast lyrical content reflecting the lifestyles of pimps and gangsters with politically conscious material commenting on the status of African Americans in the South