Invisible was originally formed by Luis Alberto Spinetta (guitars and vocals) who was formerly from the band Pescado Rabioso* that recently broke up at the time. The bass and drums were played by two former Pappo’s Blues members Hector Lorenzo (drums) and Carlos Rufino (bass.) During the beginning of the bands playing (1973) the music was more straightforward rock with influences of Hendrix and Zeppelin and touches of a Black Sabbath sound. Their first, self-titled album, reflected their influences and was very complex, especially for a three man rock group. Long songs, with surrealistic lyrics and a unique sound throughout the six tracks. This album is a top quality piece, of great beauty and suprisingly acute craftmanship.      Their next album “Durazno Sangrando” (“Bleeding Peach”) was their debut on a major label and an all out progressive album. Spinetta’s lyrics were very well written. The story to “Durazno Sangrando” was based on a book by Carl Jung. “Durazno Sangrando” is their most progressive album and is generally noted as the bands best material. In 1975, virtuoso guitarist Tommy Gubitsch joined the group. Their third and final album “El Jardín de los Presentes” (“The Garden of the Present”) turned out to be their most popular. This album has a lot of Tango influence and also some sounds that would remind us of early King Crimson. After the success of “El Jardín de los Presentes” the band split up at the end of 1976. Spinetta pursued a jazz-fusion esque solo career after the breakup.      Invisible was a bigger band in the Argentine prog scene and is definitely worth a good listen. If you are interested at all in Argentine prog they are essential. Their middle album “Durazno Sangrando” is their best and most interesting though “El Jardín de los Presentes” is also worth a good listen (mainly for it’s fusion of rock, prog, and tango influence.)      There is also a second Invisible:   Invisible is the artist name, William Orbit used when making a track called Scream. The track appeared on several albums, notably on the label Excession.  