Sidney Bechet (May 14, 1897 – May 14, 1959) was an American jazz saxophonist, clarinetist, and composer.   He was one of the first important soloists in jazz (beating cornetist and trumpeter Louis Armstrong to the recording studio by several months and later playing duets with Armstrong), and was perhaps the first notable jazz saxophonist. Forceful delivery, well-constructed improvisations, and a distinctive, wide vibrato characterized Bechet’s playing.   Bechet’s erratic temperament hampered his career, however, and not until the late 1940s did he earn wide acclaim.      Bechet was born in New Orleans on 14th May 1897. From a young age he was able quickly to master any musical instrument he encountered. Some New Orleanians remembered him as a cornet hot-shot in his youth. At first, though, he decided on the clarinet as his main instrument, and Bechet remained one of jazz’s greatest clarinetists for decades. He is, however, perhaps best remembered as the master of the soprano saxophone. Bechet was the first notable jazz saxophonist of any sort, his playing characterised by forceful delivery, well conceived, improvised ideas, and a distinctive wide vibrato.      Bechet had experience playing in travelling shows even before he left New Orleans at the age of twenty. Never long content in one place, he alternated between Chicago, New York, and Europe as his base of operations until finally he settled in France in 1950. He married Elisabeth Ziegler in Antibes, France in 1951.      Bechet successfully composed in jazz, pop, and extended concert work forms. His recordings have often been reissued. Some of the highlights include 1924 sides with [Louis Armstrong](http://www.last.fm/music/Louis+Armstrong) in “Clarence Williams Blue Five”, the 1932, 1940, and 1941 [New Orleans Feetwarmers](http://www.last.fm/music/New+Orleans+Feetwarmers) sides, a 1938 [Tommy Ladnier](http://www.last.fm/music/Tommy+Ladnier) Orchestra session (“Weary Blues”, “Really the Blues”), and various versions of his own composition, “Petite Fleur”.      In 1941, as an early experiment in overdubbing at RCA Studios, he recorded on six different instruments: the clarinet, soprano saxophone, tenor saxophone, piano, bass, and drums. This recording can be heard under the title “Sheik of Araby”.      Shortly before his death in Paris, Bechet dictated his autobiography, _Treat It Gentle_. He died on 14th May 1959 - his sixty-second birthday.      Legacy and honors      Bechet successfully composed in jazz, pop-tune, and extended concert work forms. He knew how to read music but chose not to, due to his highly developed inner ear; he developed his own fingering system and never played section parts in a big band or swing-style combo. His recordings have often been reissued.   Sidney Bechet’s primary instruments were the clarinet and the soprano sax. His playing style is intense and passionate, and had a wide vibrato