Kenneth Donald Rogers (born August 21, 1938, in Houston, Texas) is a prolific American country music singer, photographer, producer, songwriter, actor and businessman. Kenny Rogers graduated from Jefferson Davis High School in Houston.      Although he has been very successful, charting more than 60 top 40 hit singles across various music genres and topping the country and pop album charts for more than 100 individual weeks in the United States alone, many still consider him a vastly underrated artist. To his fans, he is extraordinarily popular; women in concert audiences bring him roses in unrelenting waves throughout a performance. He appeals to all age groups and still sells millions of albums.      Both his albums “The Gambler” and “Kenny” are featured in the About.com poll of “The 200 Most Influential Country Albums Ever”.[1] He has also been voted the “Favorite Singer of All-Time”, in a 1986 joint poll by readers of both USA Today and People.      He has received hundreds of awards for both his music and charity work. These include AMA’s Grammy’s, ACM’s and CMA’s, as well as a lifetime achievement award for a career spanning six decades in 2003      Most recently, Rogers hit with his new album release, “Water & Bridges”, an across the board hit, that peaked at #5 in the Billboard Country Albums sales charts, also charting high in the Billboard 200. The first single from the album, “I Can’t Unlove You,” is also a hit. He is currently planning a tour of the United Kingdom, in a 2006 BBC Radio 2 interview he told DJ Steve Wright, his favorite hit of his was The Gambler.      Biography      Brief Overview   His career began in the mid-1950s, when he recorded with a doo-wop group called The Scholars. Their break up was followed by a minor solo hit called “That Crazy Feeling” (1958). After sales slowed down, Kenneth Rogers (as he was billed then) joined a Jazz group called The Bobby Doyle Trio. Disbanded in 1965, a 1966 jazzy rock single for Mercury called “Here’s That Rainy Day” failed. In 1966 he joined the New Christy Minstrels. He left with fellow members Mike Settle, Terry Williams and Thelma Camacho. They formed The First Edition in 1967 (later renamed “Kenny Rogers and The First Edition”). They chalked up a string of hits on both the pop and country charts, including “Ruby, Don’t Take Your Love To Town”, “Reuben James” and “Just Dropped In (To See What Condition My Condition Was In).” In his First Edition days Rogers had long brown hair, an earring, and pink sunglasses. Known affectionately in retrospect as “Hippie Kenny”, Rogers had a much smoother vocal style at the time. A thin man when the group first started, from about 1971 on he had begun to gain weight and slightly gray