We don‘t know exactly when they called themselves Märtini Brös for the first time, but it should have been at one of their first joint clubgigs in Berlin, while one or the other was spinning records and one or the other was improvising on the guitar, the keyboard or on the mic.   But at the latest in summer 98 and the start of the Sundays-event series „Audiopark“ in the garden of Berlin‘s Suicide Club Clé and Mike Vamp present themselves as a duo as Märtini Brös.   Sine then they are creating hymn-like Electro-House-tracks and they benefit from the huge musical fundus and their longtime experience as DJs. You can always hear in their music what fun they had producing it, especially when it‘s down to vocoder homages.   Accordingly they write lively, strong and individual songs; sometimes with a funky guitar and sometimes with an 80ies-Moroder-bass. What starts as a sparse rhythm- and vocal-sample-framework condenses by-and-by to that kind of music that hits the nerv of the time.   The first Märtini Brös 12“ Material Love E.P. has been released on Raw Elements in 1998 and their fourth release Saviours Of The Universe (PFR13) in 2000 already included their first hit. Flash became the anthem of a whole club generation. Further single releases on Turbo (Canada) and Poker Flat / Superstar underpinned their reputation as up-and-coming artist and led up to the first longplay release in summer 2002.   With their debut album Pläy (Poker Flat / Turbo / Superstar) under the pillow they now slept more often in hotels than at home. They visited the entire club-equator and showed the people out there what it means to fläsh and that they do so the entire weekend and consequently everybody wanted to Dance Like It Is OK. The video has even been nominated for the German Dance Awards.   More remix requests followed by Tiga, Ivan Smagghe, Mr. Brooks and Detroit Grand Pubahs, who carried the sound further around the globe. The Märtini Brös became internationally demanded artists.   Since their first official liveshow at the world premiere of the german cultmovie Run Lola Run where they delivered a remarkable performance the Märtini Brös toured a couple of times around the globe. On their album world tour in 2002 and 2003 alone they played all over Europe, Australia, Canada and the US.   In between the gigs they remixed acts like Turner, Tok Tok, Tocotronic, Scissor Sisters, Louie Austen and 2Raumwohnung and Mike Vamp became part of the Remington Allstars side-projects for danceable electronica amongst the brothers Teichmann and others.   In late 2003 the singles Hot (Poker Flat, pfr34) and Boy/Girl (Poker Flat / Superstar) marked the end of the Pläy era. The Märtini Brös returned into their Audiopark studio and locked themselves away until the new album was ready.   After months of studio work already the first single Love The Machine (pfr41) from the new longplayer becomes a clubhit