Corrinne May, (born Corrinne Foo May Ying; Chinese: 符美芸; pinyin: Fú Měiyún) is a Singaporean singer-songwriter based in Los Angeles. Born on January 19, 1973, she has been playing the piano since the age of 5, and is also proficient with the guitar.      Corrinne studied in Raffles Girls’ Primary School, Raffles Girls’ School (Secondary) and Raffles Junior College. She later majored in mass communications and English literature at the National University of Singapore. Corrinne left Singapore to further her music education at the Berklee College of Music, where she majored in songwriting and film scoring. In order to pursue her dreams in music, she moved to Los Angeles in 1999.      Corrinne co-wrote the song “If You Didn’t Love Me” with the legendary songwriters Carole King and Carole Bayer Sager as part of her winning entry in a songwriting competition on the music industry website Tonos.com. Carole King & Carole Bayer Sager wrote the lyric for the song and entertained submissions for the best musical accompaniment and melody. Corrinne’s version was the winner. The song is featured on Corrinne’s debut album. Corrinne has met Carole Bayer Sager but not Carole King.      Her song “Journey” was featured on the Taiwanese drama Dolphin Bay Lovers and was covered by popular Asian singers Angela Zhang and Gigi Leung.      In September 2004, Corrinne May became the first (and only) artist singing exclusively in English, to be signed by the record label Forward Music in Taiwan, which distributes her music to Taiwan, Japan, Hong Kong and China.      Two songs from Corrinne’s second album, “Save Me” and “Everything in its Time”, were featured in Channel 5’s hit television series, Chase, which ran from March to May 2005. Chase arguably propelled Corrinne May from relative obscurity to an unprecedented level of recognition in Singapore.      In 2007, Corrinne May released her 4th album, titled “Beautiful Seed” much to public delight. After a pre-release in Singapore, local radio stations have given her a thumbs up to her fresh sound and renewed lyrics. Songs, such as “Leaving” and “Shelter” have been favourites among many of Corrinne’s Fans. The CD is available online from her website. <http://www.corrinnemay.com/>    