Biography   Angela Bofill      Bronx native Angela Bofill sang with Ricardo Morrero & the Group and the Dance Theater of Harlem chorus before her 1978 debut. With her strong, distinctive alto, she has carved a niche as an outstanding interpreter of soul ballads. Between 1978 and 1984, Bofill had consistent success on the R&B charts, with six albums making the Top 40 (five of which made the Top 100 on the pop charts as well), including two, Angel of the Night (1979) and Too Tough (1983), that made the Top Ten. During this period, she also placed seven singles in the R&B Top 40, with “Too Tough” making the Top Ten. Bofill’s career cooled off after 1984, but she returned to the R&B charts with Intuition (1988), I Wanna Love Somebody (1993), and Love in Slow Motion (1996). ~ Bil Carpenter, All Music Guide      Born and raised in New York City by her Cuban father and Puerto Rican mother, this Latin bombshell was exposed to a variety of musical styles, from Motown to Aretha Franklin to Tito Puente and Celia Cruz. Says Angela, “Growing up in Harlem, if you didn’t have the latest James Brown or a Supremes forty-five single, you weren’t hip. We always had Latin music playing in the house as my parents were great music lovers. In fact my father used to sit in and sing with the great Cuban bandleader, Machito.”      By the age of eighteen, Angie was an accomplished singer and songwriter, jamming with the likes of Cannonball Adderley, Herbie Hancock, Nat Adderley Jr and Dizzy Gillespie to name a few. She was a featured soloist with the Dance Theater of Harlem, majored in theater at the University of Hartford and majored in voice at the Hartt College of Music. Angela also holds a Bachelor of Music degree from the prestigious Manhattan School of Music where she was classically trained in opera.      Angela’s solo recording career began in 1978 with her self-titled album, Angie. The hits This Time I’ll Be Sweeter and Under The Moon and Over the Sky began the career of a young woman whose unique blend of jazz and R&B established her as one of the top vocalists in both the pop and jazz world. Signed to GRP records, she released her sophomore recording titled, Angel of the Night. With hits like I Try and the title track, both her albums were simultaneously topping the pop, jazz and R&B charts in 1979 for months. Angela’s recording career was solidified.      After suffering a massive stroke in 2006, Angie has been recuperating in her California home. She can move one leg with the help of a brace, but still can’t move her left arm.      On July 10, 2007 Bofill suffered yet another massive stroke and according to angelabofill.com was in critical condition. As recently as July 24, 2007 blackamericaweb.com reported that Bofill’s entire left side is paralyzed, as it was after her first stroke in early 2006. Family and friends encourage the public to purchase her live CD, for sale on her website