Jah Cure (real name Siccature Alcock) is a Jamaican reggae musician. He was born on October 11th, 1978 in Hanover, Jamaica and raised in Kingston. He was given the name Jah Cure by Capleton whom he met while growing up in Kingston. His first big break came in 1997 when he released the single “King of the Jungle” which was a duet with Sizzla. The single was produced by Beres Hammond who went on to become his mentor. He then released a steady stream of singles that won him critical and popular acclaim.      In November 1998, while driving around Montego Bay, Jah Cure was pulled over by the police and arrested on charges of gun possession, rape and robbery. He was prosecuted in April 1999, found guilty and sentenced to 15 years in prison. Since the arrest, Jah Cure has firmly maintained his innocence. Jah Cure is not scheduled to be released from jail until 2007 at the earliest.      While in prison he has had access to recording equipment and has released three albums and a number of singles, some of which have topped the Jamaican charts. His first album Free Jah’s Cure was released in 2000, it was followed by Ghetto Life in 2003 and Freedom Blues in 2005. More recently Jah Cure has released the songs ‘Love is’, ‘Longing For’ and ‘True Reflections’, showing his unique voice and lyrical ability.      BY TYRONE S REID Observer staff reporter reidt@jamaicaobserver.com   Sunday, July 29, 2007      From Jamaica Observer — BY TYRONE S REID Observer staff reporter reidt@jamaicaobserver.com   Sunday, July 29, 2007:      After eight years “behind the prison walls” of the Tower Street Adult Correctional facility in Kingston, the day that he was “longing for” - his release - came yesterday, but not with the fanfare and flourish that many Jamaicans had highly anticipated.      During his time behind bars, reggae singer Jah Cure created headlines that won him legions of fans, many who started petitions advocating his release. But yesterday, the reggae artiste, born Siccature Alcock, who was scheduled to be released at 8:00 am, walked out of the maximum security prison minutes after 5:00 am, according to guards.      But even though Jah Cure’s early morning release stumped his fans, as well as journalists, scores of chalice-carrying Rastafarians were at the prison gate to greet their ‘brother’, a senior warder told the Sunday Observer.      “Mi seh, some chalice bun out yah this morning. Ah nuff Rasta come out in di early morning. The one dem who hear bout the early release,” the warder said. “Him walk out like Nelson Mandela and him greet some of the man them before the warden escort him away.”   The senior warder, who spoke to some of the people who had gathered for the 8:00 am release, said the decision was made to prevent any commotion outside the prison gates.      “I am sorry to know that people came to see him and didn’t get the chance