Sandy Denny (Alexandra Elene Maclean Denny, 6 January, 1947 – 21 April, 1978) was an English singer and songwriter, perhaps best known as the lead singer for the folk rock band [Fairport Convention](http://www.last.fm/music/Fairport+Convention). She has been described as “the pre-eminent British folk rock singer”.      After briefly working with British folk band the [Strawbs](http://www.last.fm/music/Strawbs), Denny joined Fairport Convention in 1968, remaining with that band until the end of 1969. She formed the short- lived band [Fotheringay](http://www.last.fm/music/Fotheringay) in 1970, releasing one album with them (another unreleased album surfaced over thirty years later), before focusing on a solo career. Between 1971 and 1977, Denny released four solo albums: The North Star Grassman and the Ravens, Sandy, Like an Old Fashioned Waltz, and Rendezvous. She is also noted as the only guest vocalist on a [Led Zeppelin](http://www.last.fm/music/Led+Zeppelin) studio album, when she shared a duet with Robert Plant for “The Battle of Evermore” on Led Zeppelin IV (1971).   Music publications Sunday Express, Uncut and Mojo have each called Denny Britain’s finest female singer-songwriter. Her composition “Who Knows Where the Time Goes?” has been recorded by many artists as diverse as Judy Collins, Nina Simone, 10,000 Maniacs and Cat Power.      Denny was born on 6 January 1947 at Nelson Hospital, Kingston Road, Merton Park, London. She studied classical piano as a child. Her Scottish grandmother was a singer of traditional songs. At an early age Denny showed an interest in singing, although her strict parents were reluctant to believe there was a living to be made from it. Sandy Denny attended Coombe Girls’ School in Kingston upon Thames. After leaving school, she started training as a nurse at the Royal Brompton Hospital.   Her nursing career proved short-lived. In the meantime she had secured a place on a foundation course at Kingston College of Art, which she took up in September 1965, becoming involved with the folk club on campus. Her contemporaries at the college included guitarist and future member of Pentangle, John Renbourn. After her first public appearance at the Barge in Kingston-Upon-Thames Denny started working the folk club circuit in the evenings with an American-influenced repertoire, including songs by Tom Paxton, together with traditional folk songs.   Denny made the first of many appearances for the BBC at Cecil Sharp House on 2 December 1966 on the Folk Song Cellar programme where she accompanied herself on two traditional songs: “Fhir a Bhata” and “Green Grow the Laurels”.   Her earliest professional recordings were made a few months later in mid-1967 for the Saga Records label, featuring traditional songs and covers of folk contemporaries including her boyfriend of this period, the American singer- songwriter Jackson C. Frank