**The Everly Brothers** was an American (Muhlenberg County, Kentucky, USA) duo of singing brothers: Don and Phil, (Don Everly, born Isaac Donald Everly February 1, 1937, Brownie, Kentucky; Phil Everly, born Phillip Everly, January 19, 1939, Chicago, Illinois, died January 3, 2014, in Burbank, California). The pair of male siblings became top-selling country-influenced rock and roll performers, best known for their steel-string guitar playing and close harmony singing. Their greatest period of chart success came between 1957 and 1961. Overall, they had 35 US Billboard Top 100 singles, 26 in the top 40. They hold the record for the most US Top 100 singles by any duo. They were elected to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986.      Don, the older brother was born in Brownie, a now-defunct coal mining town located outside of Central City, Kentucky. Phil Everly was born in Chicago. The sons of country musicians, Margaret Embry and Isaac Milford (“Ike”) Everly, Jr.,[1] the Everly Brothers grew up in Iowa. They performed with their parents on live radio and in small-market live shows in the midwest.      In addition to both being competent guitarists, the brothers used a style of close harmony singing in which each brother sang a tune that could often stand on its own as a plausible melody line. This is in contrast to classic harmony lines which, while working well alongside the melody, would sound strange if heard by themselves. One of the best examples of their close-harmony work is their recording of “Devoted to You”.      The duo’s approach to harmony singing had a strong influence on the rock and roll groups of the 1960s. For example, both The Beatles and The Beach Boys developed their early singing style by performing Everlys covers. The Beatles based the vocal arrangement of their song “Please Please Me” directly upon that of “Cathy’s Clown”.      The Everly Brothers recorded their own first single, “Keep A’ Lovin’ Me,” in 1956, under the aegis of Chet Atkins, but it flopped. However their next single, “Bye Bye Love,” (which had been rejected by 30 other acts, including Elvis Presley), became an across-the-board smash, reaching #2 on the pop charts, and #1 on both the Country, and the R & B charts. The song, written by the husband-and-wife songwriting team of Felice and Boudleaux Bryant, became the Everly Brothers’ first million-seller.      They soon became known as the stalwarts of Archie Bleyer’s Cadence Records label. Working with the Bryants, the harmonic duo had a number of hits in the U.S. and the UK, the biggest of which were “Wake Up Little Susie,” “All I Have to Do Is Dream,” and “Bird Dog.”      In 1960, when they signed with Warner Bros. Records, they continued to have hits. Their first with WB, 1960’s “Cathy’s Clown,” launched the brothers back to the top of the charts. It was released as number WB1, the first release in the United Kingdom by Warner Brothers Records