Al Di Meola’s highly celebrated career has spanned a wide range of emotions into a unique style embodying the artists world inspired influences. From the velocity and heat of his early solo efforts to the challenge and triumph of the “Di Meola / McLaughlin / De Lucia (Guitar Trio)”, from the Brazilian explorations of “Cielo e Terra” and “Soaring Through A Dream” to the global romanticism and Tango inflection of Al’s acoustic group “World Synfonia” (self titled debut) and the 2nd “World Sinfonia” recording Heart of the Immigrants.      From the beginning of his solo career, where records like “Land of the Midnight Sun”, “Elegant Gypsy” and “Casino”, were amongst the highest selling records of any instrumental artist at that time. Al Di Meola continues to make, with respect, startling achievements in music pioneering while the decline of U.S. radio continues to elude most interesting contemporary music.      Al Di Meola, again and again, reveals himself as a seasoned gifted contemporary composer and a player of deepening grace and evocative lyricism. He has been continually sited by many of the top prominent Music critics around the world for his virtuosic guitar work and compositions. Al’s intrigue with complex rhythmic syncopation combined with provocative lyrical melodies always incorporating, sophisticated harmony at the root of these serious but heart felt works is central and foremost.      His awesome technique and musical depth can be traced back and is world renown with his debut with Chick Corea and “Return to Forever” in 1974. In 1980, marked the triumph of the “Super Guitar Trio” with Paco De Lucia and John McLaughlin. The record “Friday Night in San Francisco” became a landmark recording resulting in wide acclaim. The result of which, surpassing two million records in sales. They toured from 1980 through 1983 and reunited for a 3rd CD “Guitar Trio” in 1996 follow by a world tour. In early 1996, Al Di Meola formed a new trio with the likes of jean Luc Ponty, and Stanley Clarke (The Rite of Strings).      Di Meola has assembled what he describes as his “best group by fit in my career”. The name of this new group is the “Al Di Meola World Sinfonia 2000”. Featuring musicians from Argentina, Cuba and Israel.      He has recorded over 21 records (CD’s) of his own including his new solo acoustic guitar record “Winter Nights”. A very intimate recording of Di Meola himself alternating between two gorgeous vintage acoustic guitars and a bandura (a 48-string harp like instrument) played by a musician from Ukraine named Roman Hrynkiv. The music is centered on a holiday winter theme with songs ranging from four originals, four Christmas related pieces and two well- known pop pieces. One being “Mercy Street” by Peter Gabriel and “Scarborough Fair” by Paul Simon. Di Meola’s choice of music on this record combined with his originals has a particular concurrent thematic mood