Born on August 31, 1940 in Baltimore, Maryland, he became an orphan in his early childhood and was adopted by Dr Donald R. Robinson and his wife, and grew up as Daniel R. Robinson jr.with a very typical middle-class childhood and youth. He spent his early years, up through high school, in Baltimore attending catholic schools run by nuns. At the high school level, he went to a military school and then on to the University of Maryland, where he was a premed student. He was athletic -playing lacrosse, doing weight lifting and other sports; he sang in school choirs and played the trumpet. After his junior year at the University of Maryland he bought his century-aged mexican 12string from a sailor for §200 and discovered every possible music, classical music, bluegrass, oriental, improvisations on Bing Crosby… He became a beatnik, became interested in Japanese literature, began to write his own poetry, dabbled in painting and guitar. After discovering the most famous Japanese haiku poet Matsuo Basho he changed his name into Robbie Basho, the musician. Guitar became his main creative outlet and he came into the steelstring after meeting [John Fahey](http://www.last.fm/music/John+Fahey) in Washington, DC, in the early 60s.He entered the upcoming musical scene of Washington within a few month. Max Ochs (can be heard on Takomas 1st guitar sampler “Contemporary Guitar”) introduced him to folk music. Robbie began playing and singing blues and a mixture of foreign protest songs. The young [Leo Kottke](http://www.last.fm/music/Leo+Kottke) heard him perform: “It was the first 12string I heard and he was the first player I heard who was doing something with his fingers that was his own,…I was mesmerized by him.”      In 1962 Robbie heard sitarist [Ravi Shankar](http://www.last.fm/music/Ravi+Shankar) and “nothing was like before”. “I got Shankar´s records and just laid in a dark room and listened for hours…I dropped blues when I came into the raga thing.” He began to use open C (CGCGCE) and a lot of more exotic tunings, developed his `Esoteric Doctrine of Color & Mood for 12&6 string guitar´ and talked about “Zen-Buddhist- Cowboysongs”. Like Fahey he decided “to present the acoustic steelstring guitar as a concert instrument”.      After a time full of trouble, experiences he settled in Berkeley. The Bay Area became his home. He became a follower of Meher Baba and studied with sarod master Ali Akbar Khan. Until 1971 he recorded 6 LP´s for Fahey´s TAKOMA Label (and the amazing, nearly forgotten 16 minutes tour de force “The Thousand Incarnations of the Rose” on “Contemporary Guitar”, which was inspired by the Berkeley Rose Garden, not so far from his home) and one for Blue Thumb. After 2 LP´s recorded for Vanguard (1972, 1974) it took 4 years to find a record company again. The 2 LP´s for Windham Hill, the Label, founded by William Ackerman, who calls him one of his main influences, made him touring across different countries