Trisha Yearwood (born September 19, 1964) is a three-time Grammy-winning American country music singer. She cites Linda Ronstadt as her biggest influence, and Ronstadt’s sound and vocal stylings are clearly apparent in Yearwood’s music. Other influences include Emmylou Harris, Patsy Cline, and Elvis Presley.      Patricia Lynn Yearwood was born in Monticello, Georgia to Jack and Gwen Yearwood, and developed her musical talent in Nashville, Tennessee, where she interned as a receptionist for the local company MTM Records.      Garth Brooks and Yearwood first met in October 1987 recording demos for songwriter Kent Blazy. The two immediately hit it off as friends, and pledged whoever made it big first would help the other out. When Garth landed a major tour in 1991, he brought Trisha along to open all of his shows. Even when they became two of the biggest country stars of the 1990s, they remained close friends.      Yearwood’s self-titled debut album was released in 1991, and the lead single, “She’s in Love with the Boy,” went to the top of the country charts, making her an instant star. Yearwood secured similar success with the 1992 release of “Hearts in Armor”, which featured the hit singles “Wrong Side of Memphis,” and “Woman Walk the Line”.      The title track of 1993’s “The Song Remembers When” went to number two, and she followed it with a Christmas album, “The Sweetest Gift”, in 1994; that year, she also won her first Grammy award. In 1995, Yearwood released her fourth studio album, “Thinkin’ About You”. The lead single, “XXX’s and OOO’s (An American Girl)” peaked at #1 on the Billboard Country Chart, her first #1 since her debut single, followed by her third #1 single, “Thinkin’ About You”. Yearwood performed at the closing ceremonies of the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.      In 1997, Yearwood issued her first compilation, “(Songbook) A Collection of Hits”, which became her first album to top the country charts and also reached the pop Top Five. She won a Best Female Country Vocal Performance Grammy for “How Do I Live”. Yearwood’s two additional new singles from her Songbook album were major hits, “Perfect Love”, which peaked at #1, and a duet with Brooks, “In Another’s Eyes”. Yearwood was also named “Top Female Vocalist” in 1997 by the Academy of Country Music and won the “Female Vocalist of the Year” award from the Country Music Association in 1997 and 1998.      In 1998, Yearwood won her third Grammy and released her next all-new album, “Where Your Road Leads”. Yearwood was inducted into the famed and historic Grand Ole Opry in 1999, cementing her status as a true icon in country music. 2000’s “Real Live Woman” was a more personal outing that reflected some of her heartbreak and turmoil caused by her divorce from her husband at the time. She released her eighth studio album in 2001, “Inside Out”