Eddie Bo (born Edwin Joseph Bocage, New Orleans, Louisiana, September 20, 1930 – March 18, 2009) was an American rhythm and blues singer and New Orleans- style pianist.   Schooled in jazz, he was known for his blues, soul and funk recordings, compositions, productions and arrangements. He debuted on Ace Records in 1955 and released more single records than anyone else in New Orleans other than Fats Domino.      Eddie Bo came from a long line of ship builders with the male members of his family being bricklayers, carpenters and masons by day and musicians by night. Eddie’s mother was a self-taught pianist in the style of friend, Professor Longhair. The Bocage family was involved in the traditional jazz community with cousins Charles, Henry and Peter, who played with Sidney Bechet, contributing to jazz orchestras before World War II.   Eddie graduated from Booker T. Washington High School before going into the army. After his army stint, he returned to New Orleans to study at the Grundwald School of music. There he learned piano, music theory and to sight read, and arrange music. It was at this time that he was influenced by Russian classical pianist Vladimir Horowitz and was introduced to bebop pianists Art Tatum and Oscar Peterson.   Like a lot of other local musicians Eddie frequented the premier blues venue in town, the Dew Drop Inn on LaSalle Street. Eddie began playing in the New Orleans jazz scene and went under the name of Spider Bocage, later forming the Spider Bocage Orchestra. He made a switch to R&B after deciding it was more popular and brought in more money. In the 1950s he and a group of New Orleans musicians toured the country supporting singers Big Joe Turner, Earl King, Guitar Slim, Johnny Adams, Lloyd Price, Ruth Brown, Smiley Lewis, and The Platters.      His first released record was in 1955 for Johnny Vincent’s Ace Records. His next release, in 1956 on Apollo Records, was “I’m Wise” which Little Richard later recorded as “Slippin’ and Slidin”. In 1961, Eddie had a hit with the novelty dance song “Check Mr Popeye” (Swan Records, originally released on Ric Records). Eddie also wrote “My Dearest Darling” for Etta James which put her at the top of the R&B charts and “In The Same Old Way” for Tommy Ridgley.   In the late 1960s he recorded the renowned “Pass The Hatchet” under the nom de disque, Roger and the Gypsies for Joe Banashak’s Seven B label as well as “Fence of Love” and “SGB” (Stone Graveyard Business) under his own name. He either wrote or produced most of the titles on Seven B records.   In 1969, at the height of funk, he penned and sang “Hook and Sling” (Scram Records) which reached No. 13 on the R&B charts in that year. It was his biggest hit since “Check Mr Popeye” and was recorded in just one take. The next year saw another hit with “Check Your Bucket” on his own Bo-Sound imprint