Mary Lou Lord (born March 1, 1965 in Salem, Massachusetts) is an indie/folk rock musician, busker and recording artist.      Mary Lou Lord first gained notice playing acoustic guitar and singing in and around Boston subway stations (particularly on the Red Line, as noted by the name she chose for her music and lyric publishing company, On the Red Line Music.)      She has claimed that she had a romantic relationship with Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain before the group’s rise to mainstream fame. This claim was disputed by some, including Cobain himself, though it has been suggested that Cobain’s wife Courtney Love made him publicly lie about his past relationships to prove his devotion to her. In 1994, Lord showed up uninvited at a party for Courtney Love’s band Hole, which ended with Love chasing Lord down Sunset Strip.      Lord toured three separate times with Elliott Smith during the 1990s. He also wrote and helped Lord record a song called, “I Figured You Out”, in 1997. Smith would later say that, “I gave that song away ‘cause I thought it sounded like The Eagles and that it sucked.”      Her recordings have been a mixture of covers (including songs by Elliott Smith and Richard Thompson) and original material, with a number of songs written by, or in collaboration with, Nick Saloman of the British band The Bevis Frond.      Her recording of Daniel Johnston’s “Speeding Motorcycle” (which was originally featured on her self-titled 8-song Kill Rock Stars release) was featured in commercials for Target stores, after which her label reissued the song as the lead-off track of a CD single which also included two demo recordings from the sessions for Got No Shadow.      In 2001, Lord released Live City Sounds. This was a self-released disc of Mary Lou playing live in the Boston subway. The disc was later re-released after Mary Lou signed to Rubric Records.      She announced in 2005 that she suffered from a rare vocal chord affliction known as spasmodic dysphonia. She thereafter became more involved in A&R work and started Jittery Jack Management with her husband, Kevin Patey.  