Joshua Winslow Groban (born in Los Angeles, CA , on February 27, 1981) is an American singer known for his mature, dusky baritone voice. His musical style ranges from classical to pop.      After only one year in the theatre department at Carnegie Mellon University, his choice school, Groban left when he was offered a recording contract at Warner Bros. Records through David Foster’s own 143 Records imprint. With regard to signing Groban, Foster said: “I love his natural ability in the pop and rock arena, but I love his sense of classics even more. He’s a true musical force to be reckoned with” [5]. Therefore, under Foster’s influence, Groban’s first album focused more on the classics with songs such as “Gira Con Me” and “Alle Luce Del Sole,” the first ones decided on by Foster and Groban.      Soon after being picked up by David Foster, Groban went on to perform “There For Me” with Sarah Brightman on her 2000-2001 La Luna Tour, featured on her “La Luna” Concert DVD, and made his recording debut by singing “For Always” with Lara Fabian on the movie soundtrack to A.I.: Artificial Intelligence (2001). He also became involved in many benefit shows, including the following: “The Andre Agassi Grand Slam Event For Children”, singing alongside Elton John, Stevie Wonder, Don Henley and Robin Williams; “Muhammad Ali’s Fight Night Foundation” which honored Michael J. Fox and others; “The Family Celebration” (2001) which was co-hosted by President Clinton and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, and David E. Kelley and his wife, Michelle Pfeiffer; and Michael Milken’s CapCure event, which raises funds for cancer research.      In May 2001, Groban played the role of Malcolm Wyatt in the season finale of the television series Ally McBeal, performing “You’re Still You.” The series creator David E. Kelley was impressed at Groban’s performance at The Family Celebration event, and, based on the audience reaction to Groban’s singing, Kelley created a character for Josh in this finale. The character of Malcolm Wyatt was so popular, with 8,000 emails from fans, that Groban was asked to come back the next season to reprise his role and perform “To Where You Are.”      On November 20, 2001, Groban’s self-titled debut album Josh Groban was released and, over the next year, it went from gold to double-platinum.      On February 24, 2002, Groban performed “The Prayer” with Charlotte Church at the closing ceremonies of the Winter Olympics, and by November, he had his own PBS special Josh Groban In Concert (2002). The following month, he performed “To Where You Are” and “The Prayer” at the Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo, Norway, and joined The Corrs, Ronan Keating, Sting, Lionel Richie and others for a holiday performance at the Vatican in Rome, Italy.      On November 11, 2003, his second album Closer was released