Stephanie McIntosh was born on July 5, 1985 in Australia and is an Australian actress and singer. She is most famous for her role as Sky Mangel in the Australian soap opera Neighbours, a role she played for four years. She is the half-sister of [Jason Donovan](http://www.last.fm/music/Jason+Donovan), himself a former Neighbours star, whilst her mother Sue McIntosh is a former newsreader for ABC News.      For her role on Neighbours, she was nominated as the “Most Popular New Female Talent” at the 46th Annual TV Week Logie Awards held in 2004, but lost to Isabel Lucas from Home And Away.      Following the path of many Neighbours stars by diversifying into music, Stephanie released an album entitled “Tightrope” in 2006. Glen Wheatley, [Delta Goodrem](http://www.last.fm/music/Delta+Goodrem)’s former manager, was recruited to manage the young starlet.      Her debut single “Mistake” was released in July of 2006 and debuted at number 4 on the ARIA chart in its first week. The debut album, Tightrope, was released two months later, and made its debut on the ARIA chart at number 4. The album was re-released with bonus songs in March 2007. The second single released from the album was the title track “Tightrope” which peaked at #16 on the ARIA chart. The 3rd single is “So Do I Say Sorry First?” which peaked at #34.      The album was released in the UK in August 2007 after the release of “Mistake” which only managed to peak at a lowly #47 in the UK singles chart. “So Do I Say Sorry First?” was then released as the second single, but only managed to chart at #258.      Whilst “Tightrope” was certified Gold in Australia, overall sales of the album were disappointing, despite promotion. Stephanie was rumoured to have been dropped from her record label.      More recently, Steph has focused more on her acting and is attempting to further her career in Los Angeles.      Steph starred on the reality series “The Steph Show” which documented her life around the recording of her debut album.   2007  