**[David James Archuleta](http://www.davidarchuleta.com) ** (born December 28, 1990) is an American pop/R&B singer. On May 21, 2008, he became the runner-up on the seventh season of American Idol receiving 44 percent of over 97 million votes. Archuleta’s first single “Crush” was released on August 1 2008, which debuted on Billboard in the No. 2 spot and stayed strong on the iTunes charts for both the song and music video as No. 1.      Early life   David Archuleta was born in Miami, Florida, to Jeff Archuleta and Lupe Marie, a salsa singer and dancer from Honduras. Archuleta has four siblings. Archuleta’s family moved to the Salt Lake Valley, to the city of Sandy, Utah, when Archuleta was six. He currently resides in Murray, Utah, where he is a student at Murray High School.      Archuleta started singing at age six, inspired by a Les Misérables video. “That musical is what started all of this,” he said. He started performing publicly at age 10 when he participated in the Utah Talent Competition singing “I Will Always Love You” by Dolly Parton; he received a standing ovation and won the Child Division.      Archuleta was inspired by watching both Tamyra Gray and Kelly Clarkson to “see what performing and really getting into a song was like” during the beginning weeks of the premiere season of American Idol. He later made his television debut, at eleven years old, singing “And I Am Telling You I’m Not Going” on a Jenny Jones show for future Latino stars alongside season one finalist A.J. Gil. Through A.J. Gil he was able to meet and sing for Gray who had sung the song on American Idol as well as Clarkson (that year’s winner) and Justin Guarini (the runner up).      Musical influences   Archuleta’s mother is from Honduras, and much of the music he listened to as a child was Latin-influenced including watching his mom sing at events with her sisters. She also “was big on dancing” according to Archuleta, and would “make” him dance to traditional music with his older sister. He also listened to jazz music, he said, from his father’s collection as well as gospel, pop, rock and “soulful music.” In a later interview, he revealed that his father was a jazz musician. Archuleta also said he enjoys Broadway musicals.      On his American Idol “Fast Facts” page, Archuleta cites his musical influences as Natalie Cole, Stevie Wonder, Kirk Franklin and Bryan Adams. When asked to list his top pop artists, he cited Natasha Bedingfield, Natalie Cole, Celine Dion, Mariah Carey, Michael Jackson, Stevie Wonder, Bryan Adams, Kirk Franklin, and Robbie Williams. Like Elliot Yamin and another singer he admires, John Mayer, Archuleta tries to infuse his pop selections with a soulful vibe.      Star Search   In 2003, at age 12, Archuleta sang on several episodes of the television show Star Search. He ended up as the Junior Vocal Champion on Star Search 2