Honda Katsuhiro (aka DJ Honda) moved to Tokyo when he was 17 years old to pursue his dream of playing in an American influenced rock band. He started a band called, “The Clique” as the vocalist and guitarist. However, the band struggled and dj honda was forced to seek additional employment. He began djing at the popular nightclubs in a small nearby city, Shizuoka where he was first introduced to hip hop music and various turntable techniques, including scratching & beat juggling. Ultimately, DJ Honda landed premiere gigs in Tokyo’s largest clubs while he perfecting his turntable techniques. By this time, he had created a popular name for himself as a DJ. DJ Honda also appeared on Tokyo radio stations and remixed popular tracks for local record companies.      After entering New York City’s New Music Seminar’s “Battle for World Supremacy” in 1992 and placing runner up, DJ Honda made an international splash. After the success of this battle under his belt, DJ Honda decided to move to L.A. to make a buzz for himself in the U.S. It was here where DJ Honda forged notable contacts such as Ice T, Eazy E, Tha Alkaholiks, Xzibit & many other West Coast talents. Sony Music Japan then approached DJ Honda for a recording contract where he eventually released two albums: “H, DJ Honda” & “H II”. This signing caused DJ Honda to move once again to New York City. He was ahead of his time in Japan at this stage. After securing this new recording contract with Sony, DJ Honda launched his signature “H, DJ Honda” collection including the infamous “h” baseball caps, men’s clothing, accessories such as sunglasses, neck ties, umbrellas, shoe line, wallets, etc. In New York City, he cultivated many valuable relationships with artists like Melle Mel, Grandmaster Caz, Prince Whipper Whip, Universal Zulu Nation including Afrika Bambaata well as some of the emcees who would later be featured on his self- titled debut LP, “H, DJ Honda”: Common, Redman, Gang Starr, Fat Joe, Biz Markie, JuJu & Psycho Les of The Beatnuts, Brand Nubian’s Grand Puba & Sadat X, & more. With the success of “H, DJ Honda” album released in U.S. and Japan Versions, DJ Honda makes a quantum leap from his debut album to his sophomore compilation, “H II” which featured acclaimed emcees such as Mos Def, KRS-One, The Beatnuts, Cuban Link, Keith Murray, De La Soul, Missin’ Linx, & more. “Trouble In the Water”, the first single from H II album was a masterpiece between emcee and producer: De La Soul and DJ Honda. The second single from H II was DJ Honda & Mos Def’s collabo, “Travellin’ Man” which became a hit single world wide with having its music video playing from Brazil to South Africa. DJ Honda is extremely well liked by American emcees. DJ Honda tours the world after “H, DJ Honda” & then again after dropping “H II”