**Sandie Shaw** (real name Sandra Ann Goodrich) (born February 26, 1947) was the most successful British girl singer of the 1960s. With her hair, slender frame, model cheekbones and outfits, she has been described as the ultimate working-class ‘it’ girl.      Raised in Dagenham, Essex, UK, the Ford plant IBM operator dreamed of becoming a singer. She began her recording career in 1964 at just 17-years-old having been discovered by popular singer [Adam Faith](http://www.last.fm/music/Adam+Faith).      She was spotted by Adam Faith after she appeared way down on the bill at a concert featuring himself and his group The Roulettes and The Hollies (she had gained a place in the concert having come second in a talent contest). After the show she was taken backstage to meet The Hollies and The Roulettes, and ended up being dragged to Faith’s dressing room to do an impromptu rendition of “Everybody Loves A Lover.” Faith was so impressed that he introduced her to his manager Eve Taylor, a former Variety manager. Within a fortnight the youngster had a record deal with Pye Records and a new stage name. Taylor signed songwriter Chris Andrews to Shaw and he wrote her first single “As Long As You’re Happy Baby.” However it was the second single that was to make her a household name after Eve Taylor discovered “(There’s) Always Something There To Remind Me” on a song-hunting trip to America. The song had been written by legendary songwriting team Burt Bacharach and Hal David and had been a minor US hit for Lou Johnston. Shaw’s version became a massive hit, spending three weeks at Number One in the UK singles chart in the autumn of 1964.      This was followed by a string of classic pop hit singles written by Chris Andrews including “Girl Don’t Come,” “I’ll Stop At Nothing,” “Long Live Love” (Shaw’s second UK Number One), “Message Understood,” “Tomorrow” and “Nothing Comes Easy,” all of which made the Top 20. The star was also a regular on popular programmes like Top Of The Pops, Ready Steady Go and Thank Your Lucky Stars. Shaw also recorded most of her hit singles in Italian, French, German and Spanish, boosting her popularity on the continent. She was also hugely popular across South America, had even performed behind the Iron Curtain and sung at some concerts in pre-revolutionary Iran. Problems with work permits prevented Shaw from breaking America, although she has developed quite a collection of avid fans there! Her trademark was to perform in bare feet because, in her own words, “I feel more relaxed, more able to get the mood of a song.” The singles were produced by Eve Taylor, Andrews and herself (though she was never credited) with help from Pye arranger Ken Woodman. Although it was mainly her singles that brought her success and popularity, Shaw also released several original albums in the 60s - Sandie, Me, Love Me, Please Love Me, The Sandie Shaw Supplement and Reviewing The Situation