Syleena Johnson (born September 2, 1976 in Harvey, Illinois) is an R&B and Soul singer-songwriter and actress.      R&B’s best kept secret is finally out. Another chapter in Syleena Johnson’s book has been written. This time, it is more than recording an album. After amicably leaving an eight-year record deal with Jive Records in 2006, Syleena has launched her own label, Aneelys Records (Syleena spelled backwards). This opportunity comes by way of a label deal with Federal/Universal Music Group.      Syleena previously worked with countless artists and producers such as R. Kelly, Bob Power, Kay Gee, Busta Rhymes, Cam’ Ron, Common, Jermaine Dupri, and Twista. Kanye West blessed her with his production on “Bulls-Eye (Suddenly),” from Chapter 3: The Flesh. Syleena proved to be Kayne’s saving grace as she provided last minute vocals on the hit, “All Falls Down,” which led to a Grammy nomination for both artists.      Artists often fall by the wayside and are rarely heard after leaving a major record label. But, Syleena didn’t allow her split with Jive Records to rip out any pages from her next chapter. She simply took matters into her own hands and decided to go the independent route. With her label, Syleena will finally see the benefits of all her hard work, whether it be working on a personal project or signing other acts. She will finally have the creative control and power to see things through and plan out her career as she sees fit.      With this control, Syleena will give birth to her newest release, Chapter 4: Labor Pains, due January 13, 2009. Along with running her own label and being an artist, Syleena has also become a wife and mother within the past year. “My husband is an excellent man, I couldn’t ask for a better one and my son is my best work yet,” Syleena says. Naturally, this experience lent a hand in Syleena writing Chapter 4: Labor Pains, as she describes the pain of having a baby as the worst pain in life, but rewarding in the end. Syleena shadows her life on the principle that you reap what you sow “Nothing good comes easy. All the struggle, strife, work and pain we go through, that’s the price you have to pay to reap the benefits in the end,” Syleena expresses.      As always, Syleena speaks on behalf of a woman’s struggles. But, she leads off on a lighter note with her first single from, Chapter 4: Labor Pains, “It Is True.” She sings a heavenly love ballad about new found, true love with her husband and the product of that love. “It is everything I felt about my husband when we first met, and now the love of my son follows suit,” Syleena swoons. There’s no denying that Syleena is passionately in love as she angelically sings “over and over again, in my dreams and in my head, I’m imagining you all in my future, us continuing through ‘til we get older, and I swear that I’ve never met, a boy like you, a true soldier, my knight in shining armor, you saved me boy, you bring me joy and that’s how I know it’s true