Deborah Cox (born July 13, 1974 in Toronto) is a Canadian Pop/House/R&B/Soul singer-songwriter and actress. Her 1998 song “Nobody’s Supposed to Be Here” held the record for longest-running number one single on Billboard’s Hot R&B /Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart (14 weeks) for nearly eight years.   She has achieved 11 number-one hits on Billboard’s Hot Dance Club Songs chart.   Deborah Cox is often cited as Canada’s top R&B artist.      She began singing for TV commercials at age 12, and entered various talent shows with the help of her mother. She performed in nightclubs, and began to write music around the same time. Cox entered the music industry in the early 1990s, performing as a backup vocalist for Celine Dion for six months.      In 1995, label executive Clive Davis signed Cox to Arista Records, and she released her self-titled debut album the same year.   After middling success, Cox released a non-album single for the soundtrack to the 1997 movie “Money Talks”, titled “Things Just Ain’t The Same”. A dance mix of that song topped the U.S. dance charts and was included on her second album, “One Wish” in 1998. The first single from that album, “Nobody’s Supposed to Be Here”, spent 14 weeks at #1 on the Hot R&B charts in the USA, as well as eight consecutive weeks at #2 on the Billboard Hot 100. The album went platinum, becoming Cox’s biggest-selling album to date. Cox then recorded a new song, “Absolutely Not”, for the soundtrack to Dr. Dolittle 2. Remixes of the song repeated the success of One Wish’s singles on the dance charts, and the Chanel mix of “Absolutely Not” was included on her third album.   Cox’s third album “The Morning After” was released in November 2002 on J Records.      On February 17, 2004, she made her Broadway debut in the Elton John-Tim Rice musical Aida, returning to recording only to release a dance remix of “Easy As Life” as a single.      Cox also has been involved in a number of movies and soundtracks. In 2000, she played Niko Rosen in Love Come Down. In 2001, her hit song “Absolutely Not” was featured in Dr. Dolittle 2. In 2005, in the movie Blood of a Champion she played the role of Sharon, and again in 2005, her voice was featured in the movie Hotel Rwanda in the song “Nobody Cares”.      She released a dance single titled “House Is Not a Home” on Nervous Records in January 2006. Later in the year, the song “Definition of Love” was used in the movie Akeelah and the Bee, but was not released as a single.   Between 2005 and 2006 Deborah recorded her fourth album, called “Destination Moon”. It is a tribute to jazz singer Dinah Washington and was released on June 19, 2007.   Cox contributed the song “This Gift” to the soundtrack of the 2008 movie “Meet the Browns” and was part of Cyndi Lauper’s True Colors Tour 2008.   She has also starred in “A Good Man is Hard to Find” along side Golden Brooks and Darius McCrary