Ricky Skaggs (born July 18, 1954 in Lawrence County, Kentucky) is a 14 time Grammy Winner and a country and bluegrass star, singer, musician, producer, and composer.      Skaggs’s music career began in 1970 when he joined Ralph Stanley’s bluegrass band, the Clinch Mountain Boys. He plays mandolin, fiddle, guitar and banjo. For a few years, Skaggs was a member of Emmylou Harris’s “Hot Band”. He wrote the arrangements for Harris’s bluegrass-roots album, Roses in the Snow. In addition to arranging, Skaggs sang harmony, and played mandolin and fiddle. In 2000, he shared the stage with the jam band Phish.   Skaggs moved to Nashville in 1980 and was signed to Sony Records, where he produced his debut album, Waitin’ For The Sun To Shine. The album produced four successful singles, including two number one country hits. Many people say he rescued country music from the doldrums it had found itself in the 1970s. He was invited to join the Grand Ole Opry in 1982. He racked up 12 number one hits and 6 top ten singles during the 1980s. Skaggs picked up dozens of industry awards in the ensuing years.      He has made many fans due to his dedication to the traditional bluegrass style of music. “I always want to try to promote the old music, as well as trying to grow (musically), and be a pioneer too,” Skaggs once said. Because of this approach to his music, Skaggs has been considered to be the founding father of Neotraditional Country.      From Wikipedia;      Early career:      Ricky Skaggs started playing music after he was given a mandolin by his fater, Hobert. At age 5, he played mandolin on stage with Bill Monroe. At age 6, he appeared on television’s Martha White country music variety show, playing with Lester Flatt and Earl Scruggs. he also wanted to audition for the Grand Ole Opry at the time, but was told he was too young.      In his mid-teens, Skaggs met a fellow teen prodigy, guitarist Keith Whitley and the two started playing together with Whitley’s banjoist brothr Dwight on radio shows. By 1970, they had earned a spot opening for Ralph Stanley and Skaggs and Keith Whitley were thereafter invited to join Stanley’s band, the Clinch Mountain Boys.      Skaggs later joined J.D. Crowe’s New South. For a few years, Skaggs was a member of Emmylou Harris’s Hot Band. He wrothe the arrangements for Harris’s 1980 bluegrass-roots album, Roses in the Snow. In addition to arranging for Harris, Skaggs sang harmony and played mandolin and fiddle.      Neotraditionalism and experimentation:      Into the 1990s and 2000s, Skaggs has embraced his bluegrass roots, as well as experimenting with new sounds. With his band, Kentucky Thunder, he is a perennial winner of Grammy Awards and International Bluegrass Music Association for best bluegrass album.      “I always want to try to promote the old music, as well as trying to grow, and be a pioneer too, “Skaggs once said.      In 2000, he shared the stage with Vermont-based jam band, Phis