Dinah Shore (born Frances Rose Shore February 29, 1916 - February 24, 1994) was an American singer and actress. She was most popular during the Big Band era of the 1940s and 1950s. She became one of the popular “girl singers” from that era. She enjoyed a string of popular hits and afterwards became a successful actress for a number of years, being compared to such singers as Doris Day. She also made regular appearances on early television, and hosted several series of her own.      Childhood and rise to success   Born to Solomon and Anna Stein Shore, Jewish immigrants from Russia, she lived in Winchester, Tennessee. When she was two years old, she was stricken with polio (infantile paralysis), a disease that was not handled well at the time. Thankfully, her parents cared enough to provide intensive care for her, and she recovered and overcame the disease. However, she suffered from having a slightly deformed foot and limp, which did not physically impede her. She performed at a night club when she was only 14 years old.   When her mother died unexpectedly of a heart attack, Dinah went to Vanderbilt University, where she participated in many events and activities. She graduated from the university in 1938. She decided to get back into pursuing her career in singing, so she went to New York to audition for orchestras and radio stations. In many of her auditions, she sang the popular song “Dinah.” When disc jockey Martin Block could not remember her name, he called her the “Dinah girl,” and soon after the name stuck, becoming her stage name. She eventually was hired as a vocalist at radio station WNEW, where she sang with Frank Sinatra. She also recorded and performed with the Xavier Cugat orchestra. Eventually, she got her recording contract with RCA Victor records in 1940.      Career in the 1940s and 1950s   While recording on RCA Victor’s Bluebird label, she released her first recording, “Yes, My Darling Daughter” and it became a major hit for her. Dinah’s singing came to the attention of Eddie Cantor, and he signed her as a regular on his popular radio show, “Time to Smile”, in 1940. Dinah credits him for teaching her self-confidence, comedic timing and the ways of connecting with an audience.   She was a featured vocalist on The Chamber Music Society of Lower Basin Street and soon became a successful radio and music star with her own radio show in 1943, “Call to Music”. Also in 1943, she appeared in her first movie, “Thank Your Lucky Stars”. The movie starred Eddie Cantor, and she soon went to another radio show, “Paul Whiteman Presents”. During this time, America had been actively involved in World War 2 and Dinah became a popular favorite with the troops, similar to the popularity of Bing Crosby. She was having major record hits, like “I will Walk Alone” and “Blues In the Night”, one of her first of many number-one hits to come. To support the troops overseas, who adored her singing, she participated in USO tours to Europe