Steve Wold, more commonly known as Seasick Steve, is an American bluesman, although he rather would be called “a song and dance man.” He plays guitars (mostly personalised), and sings. When asked about his nickname, Steve said: “because it’s just true: I always get seasick.”      He is a 18th Century hitman, who reaches back to the old women but also has a punk bitch waiting for him at home, and a gravelly, soulful voice. Superb live and famous for his 3 string Trance Wonder guitar (though he does play 6-string more often, and a one-string diddley bow) he has played with everyone from [Lightnin’ Hopkins](http://www.last.fm/music/Lightnin%27+Hopkins) and [John Lee Hooker](http://www.last.fm/music/John+Lee+Hooker) to [Modest Mouse](http://www.last.fm/music/Modest+Mouse) and the Fat Possum dudes. He was the star of the New Year’s Eve 2007 Jools Holland Hootenanny on BBC TV and has played many festivals which he has taken by storm.      When Wold was four years old, his parents split up. An old man from Mississippi, called K. C. Douglas, who wrote the song ” Mercury Blues” and used to play with Tommy Johnson, taught him to play guitar at age 8. He left home at 13, and spent many years living on the streets in the States. He used to travel long distances by hopping freights as a hobo.      Before becoming a professional musician, Wold went through several jobs, including being a carnie, cowboy and a migrant worker. In the sixties he started touring and performing with fellow blues musicians, and in the nineties he worked as a recording engineer and producer.      Wold travelled extensively, living in 56 different houses in the 25 years of marriage with his Norwegian wife. Recently Wold has stayed in Norway after a heart attack made him consider staying in one place.      After moving to Norway, Wold came out with his first album, entitled “Cheap”, recorded with a Swedish band called The Level Devils as his rhythm section. His debut solo album, “Dog House Music” was released by Bronzerat on 26 November 2006.      Wold made his first UK television appearance on Jools Holland’s ‘Annual Hootenanny’ BBC TV show (Broadcast on New Year’s Eve 2006) where he performed a live rendition of “Dog House Boogie” on the ‘Three Stringed, Tranz Wonder’ and ‘The Mississippi Drum Machine’ (see below). After that show his popularity suddenly boomed, as he explained in an interview:      “I can’t believe it, all of the sudden I’m like the cat’s miaow!”      He has been well received in the U.K, winning the MOJO Award for Best Breakthrough Act. In 2007 he was invited to a number of large UK festivals, which resulted in him playing more UK festivals than any band in that year.      He was one of the highlights at the Reading Festival 2007 playing to a packed Carling tent