Shreya Ghoshal (born March 12, 1984) is a 2-time National Film Award and 6-time Filmfare Award-winning Indian playback singer of Bengali origin.      Winning the Filmfare Best Female Playback Singer Award 4 times (2003, 2004, 2008, 2009) she is currently one of the most popular singers in India. Singing playback for the top actresses in Bollywood including: Madhuri Dixit, Aishwarya Rai, Rani Mukherji, Kareena Kapoor, Bipasha Basu, Priyanka Chopra, Katrina Kaif. As well as some newer stars: Deepika Padukone, Sonam Kapoor and Anushka Sharma.      Ghosal grew up in the remote northwestern corner of Rajasthan, in the small township of Rawatbhata near the city of Kota. Her father works in Bhabha Atomic Research Center as an Engineer in the nuclear power plant by the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd (BARC) and mother is a postgraduate in literature. She belongs to a highly academic family. Her early days as a singer started from the age of four. Her mother was a good singer and whenever she used to play any note on the harmonium, Shreya used to sing correctly of her own. Her father recognized her talent and decided to give her proper training. But as she was residing in an isolated place near Kota, Rajasthan. Later on she started going to Kota and started learning proper Hindustani classical music.      She auditioned for Sa Re Ga Ma, an Indian television show, and they sent her for a year and a half training. It was here that director Sanjay Leela Bhansali discovered her and determined that she should be the voice of Paro, the heroine in his 2002 film Devdas (played on-screen by Aishwarya Rai). She began recording songs for the movie in 2000; the film itself was released two years later.      Moviegoers from across the world heard Ghosal’s sweet-as-honey singing voice picturized on Aishwarya Rai, and she quickly became one of the top female playback singers in Bollywood, alongside Alka Yagnik, Sadhana Sargam and Kavita Krishnamurthy. Since Devdas, she has gone on to sing for many more actresses under the baton of various music directors, including M.M. Kreem, for whom she sang Jaadu Hai Nasha Hai, a sensuous number picturized on Bipasha Basu in Jism.      From winning accolades as a child singer to working with some of the top names in the film and music business, the journey was not very hard for Shreya as she has become an young achiever in such a short span. She targeted doing good work and has won many awards (8 awards in a single year including a National Award).      Ghosal has completed her college education, and is planning to pursue her MA in literature, a subject which she adores. She enjoys Symphony and instrumental in western music and her favourite is ABBA group. But Indian music is definitely her soul. Her voice has a texture that suits romantic songs and she can project voice very well(a fine example is “Jadu Hai Nasha Hai ” from Jism). She is also comfortable singing sad songs or peppy songs