Helen Shapiro is remembered today by younger pop culture buffs as the slightly awkward actress/singer in Richard Lester’s 1962 debut feature film, It’s Trad, Dad. From 1961 until 1963, however, Shapiro was England’s teenage pop music queen, at one point selling 40,000 copies daily of her biggest single, “Walking Back to Happiness,” during a 19-week chart run. A deceptively young 14 when she was discovered, Shapiro had a rich, expressive voice properly sounding like the property of someone twice as old, and she matured into a seasoned professional very quickly.      She grew up in London’s East End and was performing with a ukulele at age nine as part of a school group — supposedly called Susie & the Hula Hoops, whose members included a young Mark Feld (aka Marc Bolan) — that used to sing their own versions of Elvis Presley and Buddy Holly songs. She subsequently sang with her brother Ron Shapiro’s trad jazz turned skiffle outfit at local clubs before enrolling in classes at Maurice Burman’s music school in London. Burman was so taken with Helen Shapiro’s voice that he waived the tuition to keep her as a student. He later brought her to the attention of Norrie Paramor, then one of EMI’s top pop producers (responsible for signing Cliff Richard & the Shadows). Shapiro’s voice was so mature that Paramor refused to believe from the evidence on a tape that it belonged to a 14-year-old until she came to his office and belted out “St. Louis Blues.” She cut her first single, “Please Don’t Treat Me Like a Child,” a few weeks later and broke onto the British charts in 1961.      That record was an extraordinary effort for a 14-year-old. Shapiro’s voice showed the maturity and sensibilities of someone far beyond their teen years; her depth of emotion, coupled with the richness of her singing, made her an extraordinary new phenomenon on the British pop scene. She surprised everyone once again with her second single, a slow ballad called “You Don’t Know,” which managed to appeal to listeners across several age groups and hit number one in England. This was followed by the greatest recording of her career, “Walking Back to Happiness,” which scaled the top of the charts with far greater total sales. Ironically, she’d never wanted to cut it; she felt it sounded hopelessly corny and old-fashioned, but her singing invested the song with such depth that it transcended any limitations in the writing.      This was to be the last time Shapiro would top the charts. Her next record, “Tell Me What He Said” (written by Jeff Barry) was held out of the top spot by the Shadows’ “Wonderful Land.” In April of 1962, Shapiro made her movie debut in Lester’s It’s Trad, Dad, but her single of “Let’s Talk About Love” (featured in the movie) never broke the Top 20. Shapiro next turned back to the songwriting team of John Schroeder and Mike Hawker, who had written “Walking Back to Happiness” and “You Don’t Know,” for what proved to be her last Top Ten record, “Little Miss Lonely