   While classified as a jazz musician, Courtney Pine melds a wide variety of influences into his music. The saxophonist and clarinetist has deftly incorporated reggae, electronica, hip-hop, funk and Eastern sounds into his boundary-defying repertoire, working alongside luminaries in each genre.      Pine began performing professionally as a teenager, forming the hard-bop outfit Dwarf Steps. From there he toured and recorded with reggae artists General Saint and Clint Eastwood. Pine told Down Beat that his nontraditional, eclectic approach was largely influenced by early exposure to renegade saxophonist Sonny Rollins. “If I’d heard Charlie Parker first, I might have felt alienated,” he said. “But Sonny Rollins was playing something I could understand: calypso! He was like my uncle! That sucked me into the music completely!” With Rollins and legendary saxophonist John Coltrane as influences, Pine began participating in jazz workshops with drummer John Stevens, and soon joined the jazz ensemble of Rolling Stones’ drummer Charlie Watts. He went on to tour with pianist George Russell and drummers Elvin Jones and Art Blakey, and led his own small outfits, including the World’s First Saxophone Posse. Pine set out to promote the work of black British jazz musicians, and formed Abibi Jazz Arts in 1986. The workshop yielded the Jazz Warriors, an all-black big band that included Pine.      Pine released his first album, Journey to the Urge Within, on the Antilles label in 1986, and it became one of the best-selling British jazz albums of all time. Pine remained with Antilles until 1992, recording four more albums for the label and establishing himself in critics’ eyes as a potential heir to Coltrane. Several of his albums were produced by Delfeayo Marsalis, the son of jazz pianist Ellis Marsalis (who appeared on 1989’s Vision’s Tale) and the younger brother of trumpeter Wynton and saxophonist Branford. Pine demonstrated his eclectic interests in his last Antilles release, Closer to Home, a reggae-infused album featuring Jamaican reggae artists and produced by dancehall legend Gussie Clark.      Pine continued to surprise on subsequent releases and in performance as well. He guested frequently with British soul diva Mica Paris in the early 1990s and, in addition to Closer to Home, released the African- and West Indian- influenced To the Eyes of Creation on the 4th and Broadway label in 1992. Island released Eyes of Creation, a live LP, in 1995, the same year that Pine released the more orthodox jazz album Modern Day Stories on Verve. Guests on that album included pianist Gerri Allen, singer Cassandra Wilson, guitarist Mark Whitfield, trumpeter Eddie Henderson, drummer Ronnie Burrage and, giving a hint of things to come, turntablist DJ Pogo. Pine told the Toronto Sun that the recording sessions for Modern Day Stories were decidedly atypical. “These musicians know how mad I am and they sensed this project was gonna be different from others