Rebecca St. James (born Rebecca Jean Smallbone on July 26, 1977), is a popular multiple Dove Award winning & Grammy winning Christian pop/rock singer, songwriter, musician, published author, actor and an outspoken teenage sexual abstinence and pro-life advocate. Her lead acting role in the November ‘09 pro-life film release Sarah’s Choice is one of her most recent career highlights. Rebecca’s latest book ‘’What Is He Thinking??: What Guys Want Us To Know About Dating, Love, and Marriage’’ was released in Oct 2011. Her latest album ‘’I Will Praise You’’ was released on April 5th 2011 and is her first studio album in 6 years. A long-time proponent of abstinence and the ‘’True Love Waits’’ movement, Rebecca walked down the aisle to wed the man she was waiting for - Jacob ‘’Cubbie’’ Fink (bassist for [Foster the People](http://www.last.fm/music/Foster+the+People)) on 23 April 2011.      Rebecca was born in Sydney, Australia, to David and Helen Smallbone. She is the oldest of seven children, and currently lives in Los Angeles with Jacob. Rebecca took the name St. James from her grandmother, as it was her maiden name. Her album ‘’God’’ was certified Gold by the RIAA in 1995. Also, ‘’Pray ‘’ was certified Gold by the RIAA on the last week of September 1999.      Rebecca’s musical career began in 1990 at age 13 when she began opening shows for CCM (Christian Contemporary Music) artist Carman during his Australian tour which was promoted by her father’s company, David Smallbone Promotions. That same year she recorded her first album, Refresh My Heart. In 1991 she moved to the United States upon signing with ForeFront Records, and took her stage name at the label’s request.      In 1999 Rebecca received a Grammy Award for her album ‘’Pray’’ in the Best Rock Gospel Album category. Rebecca is the eighth Australian artist or group to win a Grammy Award.      In 2003 she played the part of Maggie (Mary Magdalene) in the !HERO rock opera.      Rebecca is an open supporter of teenage sexual abstinence, and has become an unofficial spokesperson for True Love Waits. The single “Wait for Me”, from her 2000 album Transform, encourages waiting to have sex until after marriage. Later that year it also became the title and focus of a 46-city tour. James wrote the song herself on a tour bus, and it became instantly popular. The song was also used on the TV program The O.C. Rebecca’s first book, titled Wait for Me: Rediscovering the Joy of Purity in Romance, was published in 2002 and further addressed the issue.      In November of 2005, Rebecca released her highly anticipated album If I Had One Chance To Tell You Something. After not putting out a new pop/rock album since 2000, this album combines Rebecca’s overall versatility in vocal and song writing to the finest degree.      Rebecca sang a song on the 2005 soundtrack, Music Inspired by the Chronicles of Narnia called “Lion” for which she won a Dove Award