Roberto Fonseca was born in City of Havana (Cuba) on the 29 of March of 1975 in a family of musical tradition. This young lady’s man and talented pianista, composer, arreglista and professor of piano’s inclination to music begun at age four with his interest in percussion instruments like the battery. At the age of eight years he begun to study piano in the school Guillermo Tomás where he graduates in the elementary level of basic piano. At age twelve he begun to be interested in pop music, afrocubana music and Jazz and at fourteen he did his first compositions of afrocuban jazz. Being still an adolescent he formed a group of pop music where he begun like battery. later, afro forms its group of music cubanjazz where he is director, composer, pianista and arreglista for the first time. With this group he participated in cultural events of his school and skillful classes of the teacher Chucho Valdés. From 1990 he begun to participate in the international festivales Jazz Seat of Havana as the pianista of the groups of the schools Amadeo Roldan and the National School of music (E.N.A) where finished his studies of piano, professor and music of set. Forming the group of Jazz Aries and Pure Agua. Its continuous eagerness of overcoming takes to him to study the art of composition in the Superior Institute of Arte (I.S.A). In 1995 he made the opening of the international festival of Jazz JAZZ SEAT 95 with the Pure group Water where the periodic Tribune described it as: (…) A concert of high quality by students of the E.N.A. (…) we wanted to emphasize the filling obtained by the Pure group Water of the E.N.A, in an ample phantom that includes funk, jazz fusion and the traditional one (standard), under the direction of < strong>Roberto Fonseca</strong >, with six musicians who obtain a orquestal impact (…) In 1997 founds next to the saxofonista Javier Zalba (ex- Iraquere) the group Temperament, where we found a great fusion of afrocubana music with different musical sorts, making concerts in the most important theaters of the capital with the influential figures but of the moment. In that same year we can emphasize its first record work When I am great, with singer AUGUSTO ENRIQUEZ, where Fonseca works like pianista, teclista, arreglista, musical and coproducing director of this CD, winner of the prize to the best CD of POP in one of editions of the fair of disc - CUBADISCO. In 1998 with the group TEMPERAMENT it records the CD In the winning Beginning of the prize to the best CD of JAZZ of fair CUBADISCO ’ 99 made in Havana where it participates like producer, pianista, musical, arreglista director and composer. In 1999 it presents/displays its first CD in solitaire Has to do like composer, arreglista, musical and orquestador director accompanied by the band Temperament, and like producer next to Maria Helena Mendiola