Nolwenn Leroy, (born 28 September 1982 in Saint-Renan, Finistère, Brittany), is a French singer and songwriter, who rose to fame after winning the second series of the French television reality show, Star Academy. She has since recorded four studio albums and scored two number one singles, “Cassé” and “Nolwenn Ohwo!”, on the French charts. In 2012, her album, Bretonne, was certified Four times diamond for sales exceeding Two million copies.      Leroy’s parents left Saint-Renan when she was four years old. After living in Paris, Lille, and Guingamp, her mother, Murielle, and her younger sister, Kay, settled with Leroy’s grandparents in Saint-Yorre. Her mother divorced from her father, professional footballer Jean-Luc Le Magueresse, in 1993.      Nolwenn studied at the “Collège des Célestins” in Vichy. When Leroy was eleven, her music teacher noticed her musical talents and encouraged her to learn the violin. At the age of thirteen she won “Les écoles du désert”, a contest sponsored by the Cora supermarket chain, which allowed her to travel with a humanitarian mission from Gao to Timbuktu, Mali; she later claimed this had a profound influence on her.      In July 1998, Leroy was awarded a scholarship by the Vichy Rotary Club to travel to Hamilton, Ohio, as an exchange student. While attending Hamilton High School, she took music lessons at the Performing Arts School and became fluent in English during her stay there.      When she returned to France, she began classical singing classes at the Vichy music conservatory.      In 2001, she enrolled in the University of Clermont-Ferrand to study law for a potential alternative career to music.      2002: Star Academy   After watching the first series of the television reality show, Star Academy, in 2001, Leroy was impressed by Armande Altaï, one of the show’s judges, and decided to join Altaï’s singing classes.[citation needed] In 2002, Nolwenn was selected for the second season of the show. She was declared the overall winner, ahead of her fellow finalist, Houcine,in December 2002.      2003–2004: Eponymous debut album      Leroy’s first album, Nolwenn, was released in March 2003 and was certified platinum by November for sales exceeding 600,000 copies. In 2006, the album was certified two times platinum by the Syndicat national de l’édition phonographique for more than 800,000 copies sold. Four songs from the album, “Cassé”, “Une Femme cachée”, “Suivre une étoile” and “Inévitablement” were released as singles. Leroy went on tour in France, Belgium and Switzerland in late 2003 to promote songs from the album.      2005–2008: Histoires Naturelles      Leroy’s second album, Histoires Naturelles, was produced by Laurent Voulzy. Five singles were released from the album. “Nolwenn Ohwo!”, written by Alain Souchon and Voulzy, topped the French music charts.[7] The second single was the title track, “Histoire Naturelle”