FREE MAX B!      Charly Wingate (born May 21, 1978), better known as Max B, is an American rapper and songwriter from Harlem, New York and is known for his original rap style of mumbled delivery, catchy sing-song choruses & hooks, and his energetic personality in interviews and videos.      Max B is a former member of [The Diplomats](http://www.last.fm/music/The+Diplomats) and the Byrd Gang- After being released from prison, Max B was introduced to [Jim Jones](http://www.last.fm/music/Jim+Jones) through long time friend, now manager Mike Bruno. Max B signed a 2 album records deal with Asylum Records, which Jim Jones was an A&R for at the time. He made his first appearance in hip-hop, being featured on the Jim Jones 2005 mixtape “City Of God”. Max B contributed heavily to Jim Jones movement outside of The Diplomats having wrote a majority of the material for Byrd Gang Records as well as Jim Jones smash hit singles “Baby Girl” and “We Fly High”. He made his first solo attempt with the mixtape “Million Dollar Baby” which was released early 2006. He has since severed ties with both Jim Jones and The Diplomats.      Max has suffered several legal setbacks. At the age of eighteen, he began a 7 year prison term for charges ranging from armed robbery to drug possession.   He is now out on bail, in a case where he faces charges of murder and conspiracy to commit robbery. These charges are in relation to an incident, where Wingate was accused of setting up a robbery in Fort Lee, New Jersey on September 22, 2006. A man was shot and killed and a woman implicated Max B, as the mastermind of the robbery turned homicide. She turned out to be a ex- girlfriend of Max, she said she alerted Max to the guys as a target for robbery, since she seen them flashing money, jewelry, and cars. Even though Max B was never present, he is still charged with murder and claims his innocence. This trial will start in April of 2009.      After being incarcerated on murder charges in September 2006, Max B bail was set at $200,000 dollars. He sat in jail for 9 months, before being bailed out by his Byrd Gang family. However Max had to sign a contract stating that in turn for the bail money, Jim Jones would own all of Max B’s publishing, all profits made of songs originally wrote by Max, and also 6 more studio albums.      In July of 2008, Max B signed a three album record deal with Amalgam Digital, which is home to other mixtape favorites like Joe Budden, Saigon, Tash, and Peedi Crack. He plans to release the first album, entitled “Vigilante Season”, which will lead to the third and final album, that will be available exclusively at Amalgam Digitals website. All three albums will be produced by Harlem, New York’s legendary Dame Grease who is known for his use of real instrumentation as opposed to sampling. The two artist have worked together before, having released a string of mixtapes including “Goon Music 1