Marie Fredriksson (May 30, 1958) is a Swedish pop singer-songwriter and pianist, best known for forming one half of the pop duo Roxette, which she created together with Per Gessle in 1986. She and Per Gessle achieved international success from the late 1980’s to the early 1990’s with a total of six top 10 US hit songs such as “It Must Have Been Love”, “Listen to Your Heart”, “The Look”, “Joyride” and “Dangerous.”   Early life      Marie Fredriksson was the youngest member of a family of five children, who was born in Össjö. The family later moved to the small Swedish town of Östra Ljungby. A poor family, both parents were forced to work, often leaving the young Marie alone. It was during this time alone that she developed an interest in performing, standing in front of a mirror pretending to be a star. Together with her siblings, or neighbourhood children Fredriksson began to play music and sing. She was often asked by her mother to perform in front of friends who were impressed by her Olivia Newton-John-like singing voice.[1]      Her interest grew stronger in her teens as she discovered artists such as Joni Mitchell, The Beatles and Deep Purple. At 17, Fredriksson enrolled in a music college and performed in local theatre.[2] However, she found it incredibly boring, instead longing for the thrill of an audience. As she put it - “I wanted to perform. I’m a performer.”[3] She became involved in theater, and after moving to the town of Halmstad, she found herself involved in the local music scene. Joining her boyfriend’s Stefans band Strul, they played local gigs and even recorded a single. After that group split, Marie and new boyfriend Martin Sternhuvsvud reformed as MaMas Barn. They recorded one album together. Per Gessle, lead singer of the famous Swedish group Gyllene Tider, shared a rehearsal studio with Marie and they became friends. Per believed Fredriksson was far too talented to be hiding behind keyboards in local pub bands, and got her an audition with his producer, Lasse Lindbom who was extremely well known in Sweden. Lasse was suitably impressed with her voice, and offered her a contract.[4]      Going solo: Het vind and Den sjunde vågen      Lasse Lindbom asked Fredriksson to record a duet with him, “Så nära nu,” which lead to her joining his group “The Lasse Lindbom Band.” Per Gessle started to encourage her to start a solo career, but she was too nervous and lacked confidence. Fredriksson finally accepted, and she recorded her first solo album, Het vind, produced by Lindbom.      “Ännu doftar kärlek” was the first single, which was a big radio hit. The album received mixed reviews. One newspaper wrote “Is this the best you can do Marie?” She was crushed, saying the review felt like a “knife in the heart.”[citation needed] She went on tour with the Lasse Lindbom Band, as she didn’t have enough self-confidence to tour on her own[citation needed]