Julio José Iglesias de la Cueva (born September 23, 1943 in Madrid, Spain) is Spain’s best selling singer and the best-selling Spanish language singer of all time. Julio Iglesias has sold over 250,000,000 records in different languages and released 77 records. He thus far has performed approximately 5,000 concerts during his career.      Early career to 1978   Julio was the son of Julio Iglesias Sr, a doctor. He was a professional football player with Real Madrid, where he played as goalkeeper. During this time, he also enrolled in law school. He had an accident that dashed his hopes of becoming a great soccer player, but during his period in bed, he started to compose songs. He received a certificate as a lawyer from Cambridge University a little later.      In 1968, he won the Benidorm International Song Festival, a songwriter’s contest in Spain, and signed a contract with a Columbia Records Latin music label, Discos Columbia. He represented Spain at the Eurovision Song Contest in 1970, finishing fourth behind Northern Irish singer Dana Scallon, and the Welsh singer Mary Hopkin. His entry was the song “Gwendolyne” which was his first recording. During the 1970s he married the Spanish-mestiza Philippine socialite Isabel Preysler with whom he had three children: Chabeli Iglesias, who has been a show host and is now a news reporter in Washington D.C., Enrique Iglesias, now a world-famous singer who followed in his father’s footsteps, and Julio José Iglesias, a model who has released two CDs. It was during the 1970s that the Iglesias family’s private life became very public, with Julio and the rest of the family frequently featured on the covers of various international magazines.      Peak of success 1978-1990   In 1978, he signed a contract for CBS International, adding English, French, Portuguese, German and Italian to his language repertoire. He had his first hit in English with a cover of “Begin the Beguine” and released a collection Julio in 1983 building his reputation.      In 1984, he released the smash hit album 1100 Bel Air Place, which gave him considerable fame in English-language markets. The album sold three million albums in the US alone, with the first single “To All The Girls I’ve Loved Before”, a duet with Willie Nelson reaching the top five on the Billboard Hot 100. The album also featured “All of You”, a hit duet with Diana Ross.      In 1985, his father was kidnapped but found well and alive after two agonizing weeks. This prompted Julio, who had already divorced Preysler, to move his family to Miami, Florida, where they settled in a mansion at Miami Beach. That year he also recorded duets with Diana Ross and Willie Nelson. It was rumored in 1986 that Julio, perhaps seeking to get away from all the fame and hoopla for one week, was found walking around the streets of Cayey, Puerto Rico, after disappearing for seven days