Gheorghe Zamfir is a Romanian artist: composer, interpreter, poet. He was born in Gaiesti, on the 6th of april 1941. Attracted to music he entered the Gaiesti Music School, hoping to study the accordion. Instead, he was assigned to a pan flute class where promptly demonstrated an extraordinary ability with the instrument. In 1955 enters the Music School in Bucharest (today- the Musical High School “Dinu Lipatti) in the class of Fanica Luca. In 1959 Zamfir receives the First Prize in a national contest. The same year, he recorded the first songs, personal compositions in a popular style with the Folkloric Orchestra of the Romanian Radio Broadcasting Corporation. Another important prize is the one from Levadia, Greece. After the high school graduation, (1961) enters the “Ciprian Porumbescu” Conservatory from Bucharest and graduates in 1966 (Pedagogy section), and in 1968 the section of choir conducting with prof. D.D. Botez and orchestra conducting with Iosif Conta.      In 1966 he is hired as a director of the ensemble “Ciocarlia” having under his baton 300 artists: the symphonic orchestra, the ballet ensemble, the folkloric orchestra and the soloists. In 1966 Zamfir releases his first Electrecord disc which will continue exclusively his most popular authentic compositions, among which the famous songs: “Doina de Jale” and “Doina ca de la Visina”, and in 1968 releases his second disc. Between 1968 and 1970 he goes on his first tours in the Federal Germany, Switzerland, URSS, China, bringing him acclaim from critics and public alike.   In 1969 leaves the “Ciocarlia” ensemble, and in 1970 forms a traditional concert group “taraf” obtaining amazing success in Paris at “Vieux Colombier” in 45 recitals, playing for the first time the 4 pan flutes- soprano, alto, tenor, bass- that he invented himself in 1968. Introducing the pan flute in all the musical styles, beginning a world sound revolution, he got spectacular comments from the greatest musicians of that time like : Sergiu Celibidache, Hanz Hollinger, Maurice Bourg, Henri Dutilleux, Pierre Boulez and others. From now on, from America and Canada to Australia, Japan and South Africa, Zamfir produces full halls and deep emotions.      In 1972 creates the Pan flute-organ style, introducing new repertoires and ways of interpreting. In 1974 composes the first “Mass for the Peace” for pan flute, choir, organ and orchestra, recorded in Bucharest with the Radio Orchestra and the Madrigal choir -lead by Marin Constantin, under the baton of Paul Popescu.   In 1976, his single “Ete d’amour” becomes one of the hits of the year. In one of the tours he meets the German composer and conductor James Last, with whom Zamfir collaborated for the ” Lonely Shepherd “, his second European hit. He has tours in USA at Carnegie Hall and Kennedy Center, Australia, New Zeeland, Japan, Canada, South Africa, Scandinavia, Belgium, France, Switzerland, Austria