JC Chasez (born Joshua Scott Chasez on August 8, 1976 in Washington, D.C.), is an American singer, songwriter, actor, and producer, best known as one of the lead vocalists in the pop group ‘N Sync.      After the release of their fourth album Celebrity, the members of ‘N Sync decided to take some time to pursue their own interests. After recording the single “Blowin’ Me Up (With Her Love)” for the soundtrack of the Drumline motion picture, released in December, 2002, Chasez decided to record a solo album.      His debut solo album, Schizophrenic, was released on February 24, 2004.      Chasez appears on Basement Jaxx’s album Kish Kash (2003) as vocalist for the song “Plug it In,” produced by the Jaxx. They returned the favor by producing the track “Shake It” for Schizophrenic. Chasez also collaborated with well- known DJ/composer BT on BT’s 2003 album Emotional Technology, where he provided backup vocals on the track “Somnambulist” and “The Force of Gravity”. It was his second time working with Brian “BT” Transeau, as he produced the ‘N Sync hit “Pop”.      Chasez contributes backing vocals on two songs he co-wrote with Eric Bazilian (of The Hooters) and Jonatha Brooke on Brooke’s 2007 album Careful What You Wish For.      Chasez is currently in the studio finishing his second album, Kate, which is scheduled to be released in 2008, with producers such as Dallas Austin, Timbaland, Justin Timberlake and Billy Steinberg appearing on the album. Chasez has described his new sound as IPM (Intelligent Pop Music). Tracks that will appear on Chasez’s second album are rumored to include: “You Ruined Me,” “Until Yesterday”, “God Bless America”, and “Better With You”. The latter three tracks were co-written and produced with Justin Timberlake. Other tracks include “Fire”, produced by Timbaland; “Fuck with My Mind” produced by Dallas Austin; and Billy Steinberg on “I’m Not Sleeping Alone.”      Presently Chasez can be found as one of three hosts on MTV’s hit reality series, “America’s Best Dance Crew” airing Thursday nights at 10PM.  