Udit Narayan Jha known as Udit Narayan, is a Nepalese playback singer whose songs have been featured mainly in Nepali and Hindi movies. He has also sung many songs in other languages including Kannada, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Punjabi, Oriya, Assamese and Bengali movies. He is primarily known for his work in Bollywood films . He has won three National Film Awards and five Filmfare Awards. In 2001, he was awarded the Prabal Gorkha Dakshin Bahu by the late King of Nepal Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev and also awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India in 2009.      Udit Narayan Jha was born in the village of Bhardaha, in Saptari District, Nepal.His father was Hare Krishna Jha and his mother was Bhuwaneshwari Devi.      Narayan studied at P.B. School, Rajbiraj, Nepal where he passed his S.L.C. (class 10) and later obtained his intermediate from Ratna Rajya Laxmi Campus, mostly known as RR campus Kathmandu.      Udit Narayan began his career by singing Nepali, Maithili, Nepal Bhasa, Bhojpuri at first when he was in his native country, Nepal singing for Radio Nepal as a staff artiste for Maithili and Nepali folk songs. He sang many popular Nepali folk, modern songs on Radio Nepal. His first film playback singing was for Nepali Film Sindur. It was a comedy song for famous Nepali comedians GopalRaj Mainali (Chankhe) and Basundhara Bhushal (Nakkali). It was a duet song with Sushma Shrestha— now known as Poornima in Hindi films. After eight years in that role, the Indian embassy offered him the chance to study classical music at a prestigious school in Bombay, Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan, on a music scholarship. He moved to Bombay in 1978.      Udit began his career by singing Maithili, Bhojpuri and Nepali folk songs for Radio Nepal in the early 1970s. In 1978, he moved to Mumbai on a music scholarship. In Mumbai, he trained in Indian classical music for six years at the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan.      He got his first break in 1980, when noted music director (composer) Rajesh Roshan asked him to do a song for the Hindi movie Unees Bees, in which he got opportunity to sing with his inspiration, Mohammed Rafi. But the actual success story of his career began in 1988 with the superhit Bollywood movie Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak, fetching him a Filmfare Award, the Bollywood equivalent of the Oscar. The film also happened to bring actor Aamir Khan, actress Juhi Chawla and singer Alka Yagnik to stardom. After the success of Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak, he became one of the leading playback singers in the Indian film industry, lending his voice mostly in Aamir Khan movies like Dil, Jo Jeeta Wohi Shikander, etc. At the same time, he became a well-known celebrity in Nepal and sang in most popular Nepali movies. He even acted in some Nepali movies like Kusume Rumal and Pirati but didn’t get that much success.      Throughout the mid-1990s, he was overshadowed by Kumar Sanu, another superstar Indian singer