Sebastião Rodrigues Maia (September 28, 1942 – March 15, 1998).      Was a Brazilian musician known for his iconoclastic, ironic, outspoken, and polemical (but always humorous) musical style. He was also known for his habit of lightheartedly missing appointments and even important gigs.   Maia performed in a variety of musical genres, ranging from happy and energetic dance music to sentimental songs such as his hit “Me Dê Motivo”. He performed soul music, funk, bossa nova (in the 1990s), romantic songs, American pop, samba, baião, and Música Popular Brasileira.      Maia started to write his earliest songs at eight and at 14, as a drummer, he formed the group Os Tijucanos do Ritmo, which lasted one year. He then took guitar classes and was soon teaching children in the neighborhood of Tijuca, in Rio de Janeiro, including the Matoso gang (Maia, Jorge Ben, Erasmo Esteves, later Erasmo Carlos, and several others), named after the street where they used to hang out.      In that period, Maia was the guitar teacher of Esteves and when Roberto Carlos joined the gang in 1958, he also took classes with him. Maia, Carlos, and Esteves (together with Edson Trindade, Arlênio Lívio, and José Roberto “China”) formed the group The Snakes (later The Sputniks), playing balls and performing on television (including on Carlos Imperial’s Clube do Rock on TV Continental, where Carlos was already a regular). The group was soon dissolved due to incompatibility between Carlos and Maia.      After his father’s demise in 1959, Maia won a scholarship to study communications in the United States, where he lived for four years. There he started as a vocalist, having joined the Ideals, but in 1963, he was arrested for possession of Weed.      Jailed for six months and then deported to Brazil, he did not find any warmth on the part of his old comrades Esteves and Carlos, who were beginning to enjoy the massive success of Jovem Guarda, which would get a grip on the entire country in a few years. Moving to São Paulo, he had some support from Os Mutantes instead. Having recorded in 1968 his first single with his compositions “Meu País” and “Sentimento,” he became more visible after 1969 when he launched his “These Are the Songs,” which was re-recorded by Elis Regina in the next year, in duo with him and included on Regina’s Em Pleno Verão.      In the 1970s, Maia started to record albums and perform shows promoting his synthesis of American soul and Brazilian music with elements of samba and baião. The movement gradually took the working-class suburbs of the north side of Rio de Janeiro, exploding in 1976 with the black movement.      In 1970 Maia recorded his first full-length LP, Tim Maia, which included the classics “Azul da Cor do Mar”, “Coroné Antônio Bento”, and “Primavera”, and topped the charts for 24 weeks in Rio de Janeiro. His first four albums were all self-titled