Eleanor McEvoy (born 22 January 1967) is one of Ireland’s most accomplished contemporary singer/songwriters. McEvoy composed the song “Only A Woman’s Heart”, the title track of “A Woman’s Heart”, the best-selling Irish album in Irish history.      In a world where the word star and the gift of talent are often devalued, McEvoy is neither an overnight success nor a four week wonder. A musician and songwriter of note, the real deal, possessing all of the qualities that go to make up the complete artist. Her career began at the age of four when she took piano lessons, taking up violin at the age of eight. Upon finishing school she attended Trinity College in Dublin where she studied music by day and worked in pit orchestras and music clubs by night.      McEvoy graduated from Trinity and was accepted into the National Symphony Orchestra of Ireland where she worked four years before finally taking the plunge to concentrate on her passion for songwriting. After a long hard slog, the girl who spent the year of 1988 busking in Union Square, New York had come a long way, a route that took her through the disciplines of classical music, Irish traditional music and contemporary music to a point where she finally found success in 1992.      It happened when one of her songs “Only a Woman’s Heart” inspired the title for, and appeared on, the “A Woman’s Heart” anthology album. It has since gone on to become the best selling album in Irish history, staying in the Irish Top 10 for over a year. Since then McEvoy has gone on to become an artist and performer known throughout the world. Her critically-acclaimed canon of work spans six albums, several singles and appearances on numerous compilation albums and is today recognised as Ireland’s most successful female singer songwriter having enjoyed personal chart success and numerous cover versions of her songs. (Emmylou Harris, Mary Black, Phil Coulter, amongst others). Her song “All I Have” features in the lastest series of the HBO cult series “Six Feet Under”      Her co-writing song credits have seen her published with fellow writers and performers such as Rodney Crowell, Lloyd Cole, Johnny Rivers, Brad Parker, Henry Priestman and Dave Rotheray.      More info: [www.eleanormcevoy.net](http://www.eleanormcevoy.net)  