**Laura Pausini** is a five-time Grammy Award winning Italian singer, songwriter, and producer. She is the most famous and successful Italian artist worldwide. Pausini is famed for her soulful voice and her romantic [latin pop](http://www.last.fm/tag/latin%20pop) and [pop](http://www.last.fm/tag/pop) ballads and love songs, although she has also dealt with other subjects such as poverty, war, and racism, among other social issues. She is fluent in several languages. Although she mainly sings in Spanish and Italian, she also sings in Portuguese, English, and French. She has sold over 40 million album copies around the world.      Laura was born in Faenza (province of Ravenna, Italy) on May 16,1974 and was raised in Solarolo (Ravenna). She started to sing in local piano bars with her father when she was 8. In 1993, her career was launched when she won the prestigious Italian Sanremo Music Festival with one of her best known songs, “La Solitudine”. The song also has an English version with lyrics written by Broadway composer Tim Rice.      In 1994, she released her first Spanish album, Laura Pausini, a compilation of adapted versions in this language from her first two Italian CDs, Laura Pausini and Laura. The album was very successful that made her a household name in the Hispanic and Latin world.      In 1999 she recorded a song titled “One More Time” written by Richard Marx for the soundtrack of the hollywood movie “Message in a Bottle” (with Kevin Costner and Paul Newman). In 2000 she participated with the theme “The Extra Mile” for the soundtrack of the movie “Pokemon 2000: The Power of One”.      She released her first full album in English, From the Inside with Atlantic Records in 2002, working with producer Patrick Leonard, among others. The song, “Surrender” saw some limited exposure on the Adult Contemporary radio format. In an Australian release of the album, she has two versions of “Surrender” included - the original dance version, and a downtempo version called the “Toronto Chilled Mix. Both “Surrender” and “If That’s Love” reached #1 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Dance Club Songs chart. They also fared well on the U.S. Billboard Dance/Mix Show Airplay chart. Unfortunately, the album did not obtain the success the label had hoped for, failing to sell more than 100,000 in the long run.      In 2004 she released Resta in ascolto. The Spanish version of this album, Escucha, awarded Pausini a Latin Grammy in 2005 and a Grammy in 2006. This made her the first Italian female to receive such honors. The song “Víveme” was featured as the theme music to La Madrastra, a popular Mexican telenovela, in which she had a memorable cameo appearance.      About her album Io canto (Spanish Yo canto) she has said: “I chose the music I listen to, in sad moments as well as in other, more special ones, those tunes that have taught me how to feel, how to love music beyond genres and styles