Kate Nash (born 6 July 1987) is a singer, songwriter, pianist, and guitarist from Harrow, North London, United Kingdom, best known for the UK #2 hit “Foundations”.      Growing up in Harrow, London, Nash first became interested in music during her childhood when she learned to play the piano. She attended St. John Fisher school and moved on to the St. Joan of Arc School in Rickmansworth. Her talents were harnessed further when she wrote songs for her GCSE in Music and her time studying at the BRIT School for Performing Arts and Technology in Croydon, South London. However, her first love was acting and so in 2005 she made moves to start a career in acting by auditioning at the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School and was rejected. After her rejection she fell down a flight of stairs, breaking her foot. During her recovery Nash was unable to go anywhere and found solace in song writing. She began to write some new songs, finished old ones and decided that she would book herself a gig at a local bar to showcase her songs. From this experience she decided to start a career in music.      Nash’s early live performances saw her play a number of cover versions. After a few gigs, Nash uploaded her music to the popular website MySpace. Her music soon began to receive support from users of the site and Nash found herself a manager, proceeding to look for producers.      Fellow MySpace star Lily Allen has stated that she believes Nash is the “next big thing”, and she has also garnered support from publications such as Vogue and NME, the latter dubbing her as “chavtronica”. Nash has been compared to Lily Allen, because of their storytelling lyrics, the dry sense of humour that fuels their songs as well as distinctive London accents. Some people have commented that Nash sounds like Catherine Tate when she sings. Others have compared some of her songs to music by Regina Spektor.      Nash has stated that her biggest influence has been Regina Spektor and has an extensive list of influences on her myspace page. Some of her influences include, “London, punk, Bored Teenagers and John Cooper Clarke”.      Nash’s début release was a double-A side single released through independent record label Moshi Moshi in February 2007. The release was limited to 1000 copies and was available on only 7” vinyl. The first A-side, “Caroline’s a Victim”, is a synth-fuelled song about Nash’s friend Caroline. A video for the song was released and received notable airplay on MTV2. The video, directed by Kinga Burza, featured Nash playing a variety of instruments at the same time that “Caroline” sits in her room “playing killer beats”, taking photographs, trying on different outfits and sitting at her computer checking a social networking website.      The second A-side to the single was “Birds”, an acoustic number that tells the story of a boy’s inept attempts to try and explain to his girlfriend how he feels about her, all the while the girl remains despondent about the situation