Linda Marie Ronstadt (born July 15, 1946 in Tucson, Arizona) is an American singer most closely associated with the country rock genre prevalent in the 1970s. Though an occasional songwriter herself, she is better known as an interpreter of other songwriters’ works.      Her career began in 1967 with the release of folk-rock group [The Stone Poneys](http://www.last.fm/music/The+Stone+Poneys)’ self-titled album. After the break-up of the Stone Poneys, Linda entered the country music field. In 1969, with the release of ‘Hand Sown… Home Grown’, Ronstadt became the first female singer to release an alt-country album.      Ronstadt achieved her greatest commercial success in the mid-’70s. A singer and record producer, she is recognized as a definitive interpreter of songs. Being one of music’s most versatile and commercially successful female singers in U.S. history, she is recognized for her many public stages of self- reinvention and incarnations.      With a one-time standing as the Queen of Rock, where she was bestowed the title of “highest paid woman in rock”, and known as the First Lady of Rock, she has more recently emerged as music matriarch, international arts advocate and Human Rights advocate.      Ronstadt has collaborated with artists from a diverse spectrum of genres—including Billy Eckstine, Frank Zappa, Rosemary Clooney, Flaco Jiménez, Philip Glass, The Chieftains, Gram Parsons, Dolly Parton and has lent her voice to over 120 albums around the world. Christopher Loudon of Jazz Times noted in 2004, Ronstadt is “Blessed with arguably the most sterling set of pipes of her generation … rarest of rarities—a chameleon who can blend into any background yet remain boldly distinctive … It’s an exceptional gift; one shared by few others.      In total, she has released over 30 solo albums, more than 15 compilations or greatest hits albums. Ronstadt has charted thirty-eight Billboard Hot 100 singles, twenty-one of which have reached the top 40, ten of which have reached the top 10, three peaking at #2, the #1 hit, “You’re No Good”. In the UK, her single “Blue Bayou” reached the UK Top 40 and the duet with Aaron Neville, “Don’t Know Much”, peaked at #2 in December 1989. In addition, she has charted thirty-six albums, ten Top 10 albums, and three #1 albums on the Billboard Pop Album Charts.      Ronstadt is considered an “interpreter of her times”, and has earned praise for her courage to put her own unique “stamp” on many of these songs. Although many of her hits were criticized for being cover songs, they were the songs the record companies elected to cull and release off the albums. More importantly, Linda Ronstadt became a highly successful “Albums Artist”, some of which contain material written by her. Ronstadt’s natural vocal range spans several octaves from contralto to soprano, and occasionally she will showcase this entire range within a single work