The over-the-top, bazooka wielding action star of hip hop, charismatic Floridian word master Celph Titled began his professional entrance into the rap game as a teenage lyricist and local production staple during the late 90’s indie 12-inch vinyl boom. Being a member of, and producing for, a number of boundary-pushing Tampa rap crews at the time, he networked heavily to take his music worldwide and began contributing beats and rhymes to a non-stop tirade of vinyl singles during a time when the 12-inch single market was key in building a cult fan base. Now embarking on a focused solo career with over ten years of industry know-how, respect, international touring and die hard loyal fans, the “Celph”-made independent pastor of punchlines sets out to solidify his stamp on the scene as a major factor once and for all.      Celph Titled was born in Tampa, Florida and grew up in the heart of Hillsborough County’s rapidly expanding multicultural landscape. The product of an Ybor City Cuban-American mother and a German-Scottish father, Celph’s folks always encouraged his knack for creative expression. In the 80’s, young parents that videotaped all the classic videos on MTV and an uncle in a popular local rock band had a big impact on the scope of Celph’s musical inspirations. “My dad used to show me all the classic videos; ‘Thriller’, ‘Owner of a Lonely Heart’ and everything else from Herbie Hancock to ZZ Top, so I was always glued to MTV. Then one day I saw a Fat Boys video it was over. I knew I loved this music,” Celph recalls fondly. After penning some of his own lyrics and making beats with minimal equipment, he began recording demos in the early 90’s on his uncle’s 4-track machine. When asked to describe that particular time in his life, Celph states, “I knew from that point on that I wanted to be a recording artist and I never stopped chasing that goal. I was quite the mischievous kid but it soon became clear that hip hop was my calling.”      Still a teen fresh out of high school, Celph’s relentless hustle and talent were noticed when he was courted by an independent record company to relocate to New York City and begin working as an in-house producer and A&R. This was the move that would change his life and give him the platform to establish a name in underground hip hop. The now-defunct BUDS International and Bronx Science Records released all of Celph’s early records on vinyl, including his original group, Equilibrium, and singles from career-long partner-in-rhyme, Apathy. After soaking up the NYC scene for a few years, the hard work and dues-paying finally began to pay off as publications, websites, taste-makers and even major record labels began taking notice of the pale-skinned Latino and his associates