Little Walter (born Marion Walter Jacobs in Marksville, Louisiana; May 1, 1930; died on February 15, 1968 in Chicago, Illinois) was an American [blues](http://www.last.fm/tag/blues) singer, harmonica player, and guitarist, whose revolutionary approach to the harmonica earned him comparisons to Charlie Parker and Jimi Hendrix for innovation and impact on succeeding generations. His virtuosity and musical innovations fundamentally altered many listeners’ expectations of what was possible on blues harmonica. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2008 in the “sideman” category, making him the first and only artist ever to be inducted specifically for his work as a harmonica player.      Tired of the generic electric guitar blues of the mid-1940s, Little Walter introduced to blues a new sound by simply combining the use of a guitar amp, mic, and a harmonica; a technique used among harmonica musicians to this day. He made his first released recordings in 1947 for Bernard Abram’s tiny Ora- Nelle label, which operated out of the back room of the Abrams’ Maxwell Radio and Records store in the heart of the Maxwell Street market area in Chicago. Little Walter thus became the first musician to use electric distortion on purpose. Little Walter is widely regarded as the best harmonica player ever, and you can hear much of his talent accompanying Muddy Waters’s repertoire from the 50’s, as well as his own numerous and successful recordings of that time.      Jacobs is generally included among blues music greats: his revolutionary harmonica technique has earned comparisons to Charlie Parker and Jimi Hendrix in its impact: There were great musicians before and after, but Jacobs’ virtuosity and musical innovations reached heights of expression never previously imagined, and fundamentally altered many listeners’ expectations of what was possible on blues harmonica. His body of work earned Little Walter a spot in The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in the sideman category on March 10, 2008, making him the only artist so honored specifically for his work as a harmonica player.      Jacobs made his first released recordings in 1947 for Bernard Abrams’ tiny Ora-Nelle label, which operated out of the back room of Abrams’ Maxwell Radio and Records store in the heart of the Maxwell Street market area in Chicago. These and several other early Little Walter recordings, like many blues harp recordings of the era, owed a strong stylistic debt to pioneering blues harmonica player Sonny Boy Williamson I (John Lee Williamson). Little Walter joined Muddy Waters’ band in 1948, and by 1950, he was playing acoustic (unamplified) harmonica on Muddy’s recordings for Chess Records. The first appearance on record of amplified harmonica was Little Walter’s performance on Muddy’s “Country Boy” (Chess 1452), recorded on July 11, 1951