Lee Hazlewood (Barton Lee Hazlewood, Mannford, Oklahoma, July 9, 1929 – Henderson, Nevada, August 4, 2007) was an American country and pop singer, songwriter, and record producer, most widely known for his work with guitarist [Duane Eddy](http://www.last.fm/music/Duane+Eddy) during the late fifties and singer [Nancy Sinatra](http://www.last.fm/music/Nancy+Sinatra) in the sixties.      Hazlewood had a distinctive baritone voice that added an ominous resonance to his music. Hazlewood’s collaborations with Nancy Sinatra as well as his solo output in the late 1960s and early 1970s have been praised as an essential contribution to a sound often described as “Cowboy Psychedelia” or “Saccharine Underground”.      The son of an oil man, Hazlewood was born in Mannford, Oklahoma and spent most of youth living between Oklahoma, Arkansas, Kansas, and Louisiana. He grew up listening to pop and bluegrass music. Hazlewood spent his teenage years in Port Neches, Texas where he was exposed to a rich Gulf Coast music tradition. Hazlewood studied for a medical degree at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. He served with the United States Army during the Korean War.      Following discharge from the military, Hazlewood worked as a disc jockey in Arizona while honing his songwriting skills. His first hit as a producer and songwriter was “The Fool”, recorded by rockabilly artist Sanford Clark in 1956. Hazlewood partnered with pioneering rock guitarist Duane Eddy., producing and co-writing an unprecedented string of hit instrumental records, including “Peter Gunn”, “Boss Guitar”, “40 Miles Of Bad Road”, “Shazam!”, “Rebel Rouser” and “[Dance With The] Guitar Man”.      Hazlewood is perhaps best known for having written and produced the 1966 Nancy Sinatra U.S./U.K. #1 hit, “These Boots Are Made for Walkin’” and “Summer Wine”. He also wrote “How Does That Grab Ya, Darlin’”, “Friday’s Child”, “So Long, Babe,”“Sugar Town” and many others for Sinatra. Among his most well- known vocal performances is Some Velvet Morning, a 1967 duet with Nancy Sinatra. Hazlewood performed that song along with “Jackson” and “See the Little Children” on her 1967 television special Movin’ With Nancy. He wrote the theme song “The Last of the Secret Agents” for the 1966 spy-spoof film. Nancy Sinatra, who had a role in the film, recorded the song for the soundtrack. For Frank Sinatra’s 1967 detective movie, Tony Rome, Hazlewood also wrote the theme song which was performed by Nancy. He also wrote “Houston”, a 1965 U.S. hit recorded by Dean Martin. This Town, a song that was recorded by Frank Sinatra that appeared on his 1969 Greatest Hits album, was written by Hazlewood.      Though it did not receive much attention at the time, Hazlewood also worked with Gram Parsons and the International Submarine Band in the mid 1960s. Gram Parsons’s departure from the band and decision to become part of The Byrds, created legal problems with Hazlewood