**Hans-Joachim Roedelius** (Hans-Joachim Rödelius, born October 26, 1934 in Berlin, Germany) is an German experimental / ambient / electronic musician. He best known as a co-founder of the German krautrock groups [Cluster](http://www.last.fm/music/Cluster) and [Harmonia](http://www.last.fm/music/Harmonia) and his work in the ambient jazz trio Aquarello.      As a child he acted in UFA films such as “…reitet für Deutschland” (Riding for Germany) (1941) and “Verklungene Melodie” (Dead Melody) (1938).      In 1968 Roedelius co-founded the music commune known as “Human Being” and co- formed Zodiak Free Arts Lab, the center of Berlin’s Underground Culture at the time, with conceptual artist Conrad Schnitzler. He met Dieter Moebius at the Zodiak. In 1970 Roedelius, Schnitzler and Moebius formed Kluster.      In 1971 Schnitzler left the group to start a long-running solo career and Moebius and Roedelius anglicised the band’s name to Cluster. At first Cluster worked along the same lines as their parent group, signed first to Philips then to Brain. In 1974, they worked with Michael Rother for the first time. Rother was the guitarist for NEU!, another Krautrock group.      Rother co-produced their third album; Zuckerzeit, moving the band’s style further from avant-garde ‘noise’ to a more melodic music, similar to modern day trance. The trio had been touring Germany and the Low Countries since early 1973 and decided to record an album together under the moniker of Harmonia. Musik von Harmonia was released on the back of a huge publicity campaign by Brain.      Harmonia would release one further album initially; 1975’s Deluxe. British musician Brian Eno, who had become a fan of both Cluster and Harmonia, joined them for several jams, the result of which would be released in 1997 as Tracks & Traces.      Rother left Harmonia to pursue his solo career and Cluster returned to the studio to record Sowiesoso which would be released on Sky Records. Brian Eno (who had returned to Germany to work with David Bowie improvised two albums worth of music with Cluster: 1977’s Cluster & Eno and 1978’s After the Heat, the latter of which gained the band much attention in the British music press.      A further Cluster album, Großes Wasser which extended Cluster’s music into long form. Roedelius’ solo career began with Durch die Wüste in 1978 and then Jardin au Fou in 1979. This album laid down Roedelius’ future style: melodic piano and (often faked) acoustic instruments played with a sharp tinge of electronics.      The first of the lengthy Selbstportrait series was released in 1979, being outtakes from his work with Cluster and Harmonia, without the input of his collaborators. Consisting of only two tracks and recorded very unprofessionally, the Selbstportraits make up the backbone of Roedelius’ early solo recordings.      Leaving Sky in 1982, his work took a more New Age style as he signed to Virgin’s Venture sub-label