Saxophonist/Singer/Songwriter Mindi Abair, born in St. Petersburg, FL, has broken many boundaries as she continues to define the less traditional future of jazz. Her own brand of pop and soul meets jazz adds a refreshingly unique voice to an exciting new generation of crossover artists. She was raised on the road with her father’s band, but this is not your father’s jazz band. Mindi brings a fearless energy and abandon to the stage as a powerhouse on the saxophone, hearkening back to the days of Junior Walker or King Curtis.      Mindi graduated from Berklee College of Music and headed to Los Angeles where she played on 3rd Street Promenade and local clubs to get attention. Bobby Lyle hired her off the street for his tour, and she soon became a sought after sideman. She signed as a solo artist to Verve Records in 2002, and never looked back.      Her solo career has produced 10 #1 radio singles and 5 major label solo releases that have topped the Contemporary Jazz Charts, “It Just Happens That Way” (2003), “Come As You Are” (2004), “Life Less Ordinary” (2006), “Stars” (2008), and “In Hi Fi Stereo” (2010).      Mindi has hosted the internationally syndicated radio show “Chill With Mindi Abair” for 6 years. She is an elected governor for the Los Angeles Chapter of NARAS, and is an Artist Ambassador for Campell’s Labels for Education and The Grammy Foundation.      She’s been the featured saxophonist on the 2011 and 2012 seasons of “American Idol”, won Best International Instrumentalist at the 2011 Wave Awards in Toronto, and Best Female Artist of the Year at the 2011 Oasis Contemporary Jazz Awards. She also appeared this season on the Fran Drescher show “Happily Divorced”.      Mindi authored the book “How To Play Madison Square Garden – A Guide To Stage Performance.”      She is currently touring the US and abroad with her band. The list of artists she has toured or recorded with are a testament to her talent. They include Aerosmith, Keb’ Mo’, Lalah Hathaway, Duran Duran, Lee Ritenour, the Backstreet Boys, Mandy Moore, Max Weinberg, Bill Champlin, David Pack, Mocean Worker, Adam Sandler, Rick Braun, Teena Marie, Bobby Lyle, Jonathan Butler, and Peter White.  