Faudel (b. [Faudel Belloua](http://www.last.fm/music/Faudel+Belloua) on 6 Jun 1978 in Mantes-la-Jolie, France), is a singer of Algerian descent - considered, by many, the “Prince of Raï”. He grew up in the suburbs of Paris, where he picked up his musical talents from his grandmother who taught him traditional Algerian music. His first public singing experience was during a family wedding celebration in Oran, Algeria. Faudel started to cover the popular tracks by Cheb Khaled and Cheb Mami at 12, after which he soon fronted the popular band “Les Etoiles du Raï”. His debut album, Baida, catapulted him to fame. He has also performed with Khaled and Rachid Taha on the live album 1,2,3 Soleils. His other albums include Samra and his album Un Autre Soleil (released Sept. 2003) and, most recently, Mundial Corrida (2006).      He also has acted in a few roles, including Happenstance (Le Battement d’ailes du papillon) with Audrey Tautou.      **Biography**      The French music scene, long renowned as a thriving centre for world music, has now become a refuge for Algerian Rai stars. Faced with repression and death threats in their homeland, a number of top Algerian Rai stars have now set up home in Paris and launched successful international careers from France. The French capital and the surrounding suburbs have now become a rich breeding ground for young chebs seeking to emulate the examples of Khaled and Cheb Mami. Indeeilld, a whole new generation of Rai musicians are now “made in France”. Rai star Faudel is typical of the New Rai Generation.      Faudel Bellula - better known to fans as Faudel - was born on June 6th 1978 in the Paris suburb of Mantes-la-Jolie, where he grew up in the Val-Fourré neighbourhood. His father, who was born in Chlef (Algeria) worked on the production line at the Renault car factory while his mother, who was also born in Algeria (in the village of Hennaya) worked as a cleaner. Faudel grew up in a highly musical environment at home. His seven brothers, all of them musicians, introduced him to soul and reggae at an early age, while his parents stocked the house with Rai cassettes.      But one of Faudel’s greatest influences during his early years was his grandmother who performed regularly with the “meddahates” (groups of women musicians in Oran who play traditional music at weddings and other family occasions). It was Faudel’s grandmother who was largely responsible for putting the young boy in touch with his Algerian roots and teaching him traditional Rai rhythms during the summer holidays. Faudel certainly proved to be a quick and enthusiastic learner and, by the age of 12, the talented youngster had already formed his own group, “Les Etoiles du Rai” (The Rai Stars). Faudel and “Les Etoiles du Rai” soon became a well-known fixture at the youth club and other local associations in Mantes-la-Jolie