[Paul Simon](http://www.last.fm/music/Paul+Simon) and [Art Garfunkel](http://www.last.fm/music/Art+Garfunkel) are popular American musicians and singer-songwriters known collectively as Simon & Garfunkel. They formed the group Tom and Jerry in 1957 in Queens, New York, and had their first taste of success with the minor hit “Hey Schoolgirl”. As Simon and Garfunkel, the duo rose to fame in 1965 backed by the hit single “The Sound of Silence”. Their music was featured in the landmark film The Graduate, propelling them further into the public consciousness. They are well known for their close harmonies and sometimes unstable relationship. Their last album, Bridge over Troubled Water, was marked with several delays caused by artistic differences. Simon and Garfunkel were among the most popular recording artists of the 1960s, and are perhaps best known for their songs “The Sound of Silence”, “Mrs. Robinson”, “Bridge over Troubled Water” and “The Boxer”. They have received several Grammys and are inductees of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Long Island Music Hall of Fame (2007). In 2004, Rolling Stone ranked Simon and Garfunkel #40 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.      They have reunited on several occasions since their 1970 break-up, most famously for 1981’s The Concert in Central Park, which attracted more than 750,000 people.      Early history   Close friends through childhood, Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel grew up in the same Kew Gardens Hills (Queens, N.Y.) neighborhood just blocks away from one another. They met in elementary school, at Public School 164, in 1953, when they both appeared in the school play Alice in Wonderland (Simon as the White Rabbit, Garfunkel as the Cheshire Cat). They were classmates at Parsons Junior High School and Forest Hills High School in New York City, and began performing together in their junior year as Tom and Jerry, with Simon as Jerry Landis (whose last name he borrowed from a girl he had been dating) and Garfunkel as Tom Graph (so called because he was fond of tracking (“graphing”) hits on the pop charts). They began writing their own songs in 1955, and made their first professional recording, “Hey, Schoolgirl”, for Sid Prosen of Big Records in 1957. Released on 45 and 78 rpm records, the song—with B side “Dancin’ Wild”—sold 100,000 copies, hitting #49 on the Billboard charts. Both Simon and Garfunkel have acknowledged the tremendous impact of The Everly Brothers on their style, and many of their early songs (including “Hey, Schoolgirl”) bear the mark of this influence.      They later performed their hit on American Bandstand, right after Jerry Lee Lewis’s “Great Balls of Fire”.      Subsequent efforts in 1958 did not reach near their initial success, and after high school the duo went to separate colleges, with Simon enrolling at Queens College (C.U.N.Y.) and Garfunkel at Columbia University. While enrolled in college, they both joined the same fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Pi