Renato Zero is the stage name of Renato Fiacchini (born September 30, 1950), an Italian singer-songwriter and showman.      Renato Fiacchini was born in Rome in the Via di Ripetta, next to the Via del Corso.      He quit his studies early to devote himself to his true passion, playing music and singing - though initially with little success. He replied to the criticisms (including the recurring insult Sei uno zero! - “You’re a zero!”) by assuming the alter-ego of Renato Zero. After several different jobs, including an appearance in an advertisement for ice-cream, he recorded his first singles in 1965: “Tu, sì”, “Il deserto”, “La solitudine”, which were never issued. His first published single, “Non basta sai/In mezzo ai guai” (1967), sold a total of 20 copies.      In the late 1960s Zero’s career was favoured by the glam-rock fashion, which he had somehow presaged with his sexual ambiguity and androgynous appearance. At the same time, this led him to be accused of cloning characters like David Bowie. In 1973 he issued his first LP, No! Mamma, no! (live), but with little success. The follow-up Invenzioni met the same fate.      Birth of the “Zerophilia”      It was not until 1976 that he scored his first hit with the single “Madame”. “Madame” and the album including it, Trapezio, established a regular and loyal audience for Zero. This was to increase exponentially in the following years, until he could boast a huge following of die-hard fans that he dubbed “Sorcini” (“Little Mice”).      The late 1970s were indeed years of great success for Zero’s character, with the LPs Zerofobia (“Zerophobia”, 1977), Zerolandia (1978) and Erozero (1979) topping the Italian charts. At this time Renato Zero was amongst the two or three most popular singers in Italy and his song “Il Carrozzone” was already regarded, also by critics, as one of the best Italian songs ever.      In 1979 Zero played himself in the movie “Ciao Nì” (his usual greeting to his fans, which can be roughly translated as “Hi pal!”). In Italy this film was to be more successful than the blockbuster “Superman”.      The 1980s      In the 1980s he began to abandon make-up and greasepaint, but this did not rid Zero of his mania for grandeur: in the 1980 tour, for example, he entered the scene riding a white horse. In 1982 he began a collaboration with the opera director Renato Serio, who was to write the string arrangements for almost all of Zero’s following LPs. In late 1983 he took part in RAI’s Fantastico 3, then the most popular Italian TV show.      His career continued to be successful until 1984, with top-charts songs like “Amico” (“Friend”) and “Spiagge” (“Beaches”). That year, however, his album Leoni si nasce and the tour of the same name, in which he appeared disguised as a lion and escorted by four aborigines, were commercial failures