[Mary Mary](http://www.mary-mary.com) is an American gospel group, consisting of sisters Erica Monique Campbell (born April 29, 1972) and Trecina “Tina” Evette Campbell (born May 1, 1975), and are often credited for broadening the fan base of contemporary gospel in the 2000s by introducing elements of soul music and hip hop. Erica Atkins-Campbell and Trecina Atkins-Campbell were born in Inglewood, California. The Campbell (formerly Atkins) sisters grew up as part of a large family of nine children in Inglewood, California. Their parents are Thomasina (An evangelist and choir director at the Evangelistic Church of God in Christ) and Eddie (a youth minister). Because of their proximity in age, the two singers grew up closer to one another than to any of their seven siblings. The sisters quickly entered the world of church choirs, traveling gospel shows, and some television productions. All nine Atkins children were on the Bobby Jones Gospel show on BET. The sisters had their sights set on making music a career and enrolled at El Camino College to study voice. There they ran up against the divide between academic music studies and the popular musical world. “We had to study classical and sing arias, which was fine,” Erica told the Times, “but the teachers would tell us if we sang anything else it would damage our instrument.” The sisters toures with the 1995 Michael Matthews traveling gospel show Mama I’m Sorry and Sneaky. Each sister subsequently toured as a backup singer for a variety of R&B acts including Brandy. A meeting with producer Warryn Campbell led to their song publishing deal with the giant EMI music conglomerate and a series of songs that landed on the soundtracks. They wrote “Dance” and performed it with Robin S. for the soundtrack to the 1998 film Dr. Dolittle; “Let Go, Let God” for The Prince of Egypt Inspirational, one of three soundtrack albums for the film; and songs of theirs were recorded by Yolanda Adams and 702. At the same time, Mary Mary as a musical entity took shape.T he sisters’ profile in the gospel industry was raised when their songs “Time To Change” and “Yeah” were recorded by Yolanda Adams on the Mountain High… Valley Low CD. The duo was subsequently signed to Columbia Records/C2 Records and decided to perform under the name Mary Mary, honoring Mary, the mother of Jesus and Mary Magdalene. They were first gospel act to record for the industry giant Columbia Records since Tramaine Hawkins in the mid-1990s. Their first single, “Shackles (Praise You)” became a crossover hit, being popular with gospel, R&B, and pop audiences. It was a Top 10 R&B and Top 40 pop hit, and peaked at #28 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. It became the first gospel song in five years to crack the R&B top ten and gained wide exposure on the MTV video cable channel. The album was a huge success because it offered a younger, hipper version of gospel that audiences could relate to