Himesh is the son of veteran Gujarati music director Vipin Reshammiya.In Gujarat He Is From Bhavagar City. He lost his elder brother when he was 13 years old. [2]. He did his schooling at Hill Grange School in Peddar Road area, Mumbai.      Music direction career      Himesh started his career with a production house which aired quite a few TV soaps on Doordarshan Ahemdabad and Zee TV. Early in his career, he received critical acclaim for his musical scores, although the films associated with them were not popular at the box office. His first film as music director was Bandhan (1998), in which he collaborated with Anand Raj Anand to produce the musical score. Although it was not the first film to which he contributed music, it was the first one on which he was listed as a contributing music director.      Himesh Reshammiya was first noticed in Bollywood for his work in the film Pyar Kiya To Darna Kya (1998). He became good friends with Salman Khan, a famous Bollywood actor who starred in the film, and composed songs for some subsequent film in which Salman starred. Reshammiya soon developed his own unique style of composition, based on pop music and catchy techno beats. He also places a particular emphasis on melodic hooks to his songs. His most popular albums can be said to be Tere Naam and Aashiq Banaya Aapne. With a series of popular film scores, he is considered one of the upcoming music composers in Indian cinema today. His music is associated with the youthful culture that has recently been pervasive in India, but he has also shown versatility, focusing on a more classical style for films such as Banaras: A Mystic Love Story and semi-classical like Tere Naam. As of 2006 he is the top composer of this year. It is also reported that his recent music composition Dil Diya Hai represented Himesh’s tiredness as his music has not been quite top charting as it used to be. The media has advised Himesh to cut down work as he is working on 30-35 films (equivalent to half the films released in Bollywood in one year). In 2006, Himesh had well over 36 hit tracks in a single calender year. He also became the first Indian to perform at the Webley Arena, London. Aksar, Ahista Ahista and 36 China Town are considered Himesh’s best score after Tere Naam (in 2003) and Humraaz.      Apart from Bollywood style, he has composed music in classical, semi- classical, fusion and heavy metal styles. He also prefers only Sameer as his lyricist. Aashiq Banaya Aapne and Tere Naam are considered his best scores. He recently came out with another successful single from his album “Aap Ka Suroor” - Tera Suroor, which is a love song.      Singer      Primarily a music director, Himesh later became popular for his vocals which have the distinctive high-pitched nasal twang. Reshammiya, like many of his contemporary music composers, sings several of the songs that he composes. However, he has had unprecedented success in this regard