RONNIE EARL was born Ronald Horvath in Queens, NY, on March 10, 1953 (descending from a Hungarian immigrant family). He studied music composition in college, and moved to Boston University in 1975 to pursue a Master’s Degree in Special Education, teaching handicapped children. In the early ’70s he became fascinated with the local blues scene. It was at this time that he attended a Muddy Waters concert at the Speakeasy Club in Cambridge, MA, which mesmerized him so much he took up guitar (at the age of 22!). Developing his craft quickly, he changed his last name to the bluesier-sounding Earl in tribute to Earl Hooker, one of his favorite influences. Prior to the name switch, he’d made some recordings for the small Baron label under his original moniker beginning in 1977, first backing Guitar Johnny & the Rhythm Rockers, then as a founding member of Sugar Ray & the Bluetones with harmonica player/singer Sugar Ray Norcia.      In 1979, Earl was invited to replace Duke Robillard in the prominent Providence, Rhode Island band Roomful of Blues, whose swinging jump blues revivalist sound demanded a jazz sensibility as well as ample blues feeling. The technichally deft and musically encyclopediac Robillard took Earl under his wing. The result was a jazzy, soulful blues style, as well as his slow burn style which fans found both mesmerizing and exhilarating. Earl spent the next eight years with Roomful of Blues and watched their national profile grow steadily larger.      Meanwhile, Earl also made a few recordings on his own for Black Top Records, forming the first versions of the Broadcasters in the early ’80s that focused on blues instrumentals, which few artists had ever attempted. He released his first solo album, Smokin’, in 1983 and followed it with They Call Me Mr. Earl in 1984 (both of those albums were later compiled on the CD Deep Blues). The vocalists adorning The Broadcasters included Kim Wilson, Darrell Nulisch, and Sugar Ray Norcia. During Ronnie Earl’s Roomful of Blues tenure, there were several albums featuring classic R&B legends, such as Eddie ‘Cleanhead’ Vinson, Big Joe Turner, and Earl King. Ronnie left Roomful on a very high note with 1987’s Live at Lupo’s.      He began collaborations with contemporaries Ron Levy and Jerry Portnoy, Earl King, Jimmy Rogers, and Jimmy Witherspoon. Deciding to devote all his energies to his solo career, 1988 would see the completion of Soul Searchin’ which would re-unite Earl and Duke. Of special note, it greeted many of Ronnie’s most enduring compositions, After All, It’s My Soul, Ships Passing In the Night, and You’re The One. By this time The Broadcasters were culled down to a 3-piece unit: Bruce Katz, Per Hanson, and Rod Carey. The instrumental albums that emerged (Language of the Soul, Still River, Blues Guitar Virtuoso, Blues and Ballads, Color of Love) would take the Blues world by storm