Kailash Kher’s spectacular journey from a humble upbringing to revered pop star, Bollywood playback singer and television celebrity is nothing less then remarkable. It is also a testament to the strength and appeal of what is undeniably one of the most unique voices in Indian music today.      Born July 7, 1973 in Merut on the outskirts of Delhi, India to a family with Kashmiri roots, Kher moved to New Delhi as a young child. Kher’s father, a Hindu priest, was an amateur musician whose performances of traditional folk songs were a regular household event. Even as a four year old, Kher revealed a natural musical talent and he would often impress friends and family by belting out songs with his prematurely powerful voice. At the age of 14, Kher left home in search of a guru to further his musical training, and he embarked on years of classical and folk music study.      At first, his parents discouraged his dedication to music, and in deference to their wishes Kher tried his hand at the import/export business. Clearly, his passions lay elsewhere, as this endeavor proved a dismal failure. In 2001, Kher left New Delhi for Mumbai, the epicenter of India’s highly competitive music industry, to seek his fortunes as a professional singer. For a while, Kher struggled, living in cheap residence hotels and eking out whatever musical work he could find to make ends meet. Kher’s first recording was on an advertising jingle for a diamond company, for which he was paid the equivalent of $100.      Soon after recording a handful of jingles, the raw, earthy and soulful strength of his voice - often compared to the late qawwali maestro Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan - caught the attention of every production house and film composer in Mumbai. His big break came with the song “Allah Ke Bande” from the movie Waisa Bhi Hota Hai Part II. The song became more famous then the film itself, and its success made him a household name. By 2004, Kher had been catapulted into the national spotlight, and has since performed on over one hundred and fifty Hindi film soundtracks, has sung in over fourteen languages on a number of regional Indian films, not to mention recording more than four hundred radio and television advertising jingles.      Though the Bollywood playback world has proven rewarding, Kher finds more personal satisfaction in the music he writes and records with Naresh and Paresh Kamath, brothers and prominent members of his band Kailasa. Fixtures on the Indian rock and pop scene, Naresh and Paresh were veterans of the popular band Bombay Black.      Combining Kher’s strong traditional folk sensibilities and lyrics invoking Sufi mysticism, with Naresh and Paresh’s more modern rock, electronic and funk influences, Kailash Kher & Kailasa released their first album, Kailasa, in 2006, which resulted in the smash hits “Teri Deewani” and “Tauba Tauba.” This was followed in 2007 by their second album Jhoomo Re, which was also a critical and commercial success