David Styles (born November 28, 1974), better known as Styles P, is an American rapper. He was born to a Jamaican father and a South African mother. He is a member of Hip Hop group D-Block, which includes [Jadakiss](http://www.last.fm/music/Jadakiss) and [Sheek Louch](http://www.last.fm/music/Sheek+Louch). He is known primarily for the hardcore lyrics and powerful messages in his music.      Born in Corona, Queens, and raised on Groshon Ave in Yonkers, NY, Styles began rapping with Jadakiss and Sheek in 1994, as they all grew up in the same Yonkers, New York neighborhood. They eventually signed to Bad Boy Records, formed the rap group called “THE LOX” which stands for “Living Off Xperience”, and recorded songs with Notorious B.I.G., Sean Combs and Darren Blackburn. In 1998, The Lox released Money, Power & Respect w/ the hit song “Money, Power, Respect” feat. fellow Bad Boy, “Lil Kim” and Ruff Ryder Earl “DMX” Simmons. Soon thereafter, Styles P led the Lox on the now infamous quest to leave Bad Boy Records. When they were finally released, the Lox signed to Interscope. Shortly thereafter, a new Lox album and Jadakiss’ solo album Kiss Tha Game Goodbye were released.      Styles released A Gangster and a Gentleman in 2002, as his debut solo album. The album contained the song “The Life”, featuring Pharoahe Monch which was originally recorded for Rawkus Records’ Soundbombing 3 compilation album. The follow up hit was the song dedicated to marijuana use, “Good Times (I Get High)”, one of the most played songs of 2002.      In 2003, Styles P. and Jadakiss appeared on the “Oz Soundtrack” with one of the harder edged songs “Some Niggas” about prison life. On a mixed album with several songs about the lifestyle behind bars, “Some Niggas” was one of the fiercest and most remembered songs on the street from that album.      In 2004, Styles P. released the mixtape Ghost Stories in limited distribution form (NY only) — the mixtape spread to other cities and onto the internet in the next year. He was featured on the hit song “Locked Up”, by R&B artist Akon.      In 2005, Styles P. received local market airplay for his and Jadakiss’ remix of Mariah Carey’s mega-hit “We Belong Together”, and on Miri Ben-Ari’s album, The Hip-Hop Violinist; he features on the track “We Gonna Win”. He released two stand-alone mixtapes in complete form: Ghost in the Shell in the spring of 2005 and Ghost in the Machine in the Fall.      Styles P. has been featured on many rappers’ albums including Ghostface Killah, Jadakiss, Sheek Louch, and Akon’s albums. Styles is rumoured to appear on DMX’s new album Walk With Me Now and You’ll Fly With Me Later. He will also appear on the title track to The Roots’ latest album, Rising Down.  