Jonas Hellborg (born June 7, 1958) is a Swedish bass guitarist. He has collaborated with John McLaughlin, Bill Laswell, Shawn Lane, Jens Johansson, Michael Shrieve, V. Selvaganesh, Mattias IA Eklundh and Buckethead.      He began his music career in 1976 in Sweden touring with local Rock Acts. In 1979, he was spotted by percussionist Reebop Kwaku Baah in a small club in Stockholm. He moved to London for a year to work with Reebop on different projects. Hellborg played the Montreux Jazz festival in Switzerland in 1981 and met Mike Brecker who introduced him to John Mc Laughlin, Billy Cobham, and other fusion stars. McLaughlin asked him to join the newly reformed Mahavishnu in 1983. Hellborg stayed with Mc Laughlin until 1988 touring and recording with Mahavishnu and also doing several duet tours with McLauglin. In 1986 and 1987 he toured with a project featuring Ginger Baker on drums and Bernie Worrell on keyboards.      In 1988 he moved to New York started his own band which first included keyboardist Aydin Esen and drummer Kenwood Dennard, later the Johansson Brothers Jens on Keys and Anders on drums. At the same time ha started a recording studio together with producer/Bassist Bill Laswell called Greenpoint Studios. A multitude of records were recorded there until early 1993, including The Word together with Tony Williams, Octave of the Holy Innocents with Mike Shrieve and Buckethead, Materials Hallucination Engine, E with the Johansson Brothers.      In 1993 he sold his part in the studio to Laswell and resettled in Paris, France. The following year he teamed up with guitarist Shawn Lane, a cooperation that would last 9 years. The first record was “Abstract Logic” with Ginger Bakers son Kofi on drums. Followed by Michael Shrieve’s “Two Doors”. By the third record they were joined by drummer Jeff Sipe and embarked on long stretch that produced 4 records and a lot of touring between1995 and 1997.      In 1998 Hellborg met percussionist V. Selvaganesh at a Zakir Hussein concert in Paris. The two formed another long lasting musical partnership that has been ongoing since then. To start with Selvaganesh joined Hellborg in duets and in different “classical” settings Hellborg was working on at the time. Later a group was formed first in Trio with Lane then grew into a quintet including Selvaganesh’s 2 brothers V Umashankar and V. Umamahesh. 2 Cd’s and a DVD were produced with this group. Since Shawn Lane’s tragic death in 2003, Hellborg has continued to explore amalgamations of Indian and “western” music, working with such Indian masters as Debashish Bhattacharya, Niladri Kumar, Vikku Vinayakram, Tanmoy Bose, and U Shrinivas. He has also started a new Metal-Fusion project with guitarist Mattias IA Eklundh called Art Metal.      Hellborg founded his own record label Day Eight Music in 1979 releasing his first solo bass record The Bassic Thing – an early showcase of his pioneering chordal, and for the time very advanced, slapping approaches