Gabriella Lucia Cilmi (born 10 October 1991) is an Australian singer- songwriter. In 2008, Cilmi was awarded six ARIA Music Awards, including Single of the Year and Best Female Artist. Her debut album, Lessons to Be Learned, was released in March 2008, becoming a moderate international success. Her second studio album, Ten, was released in March 2010. Her third studio album, The Sting, is set to be released in November 2013.      Gabriella Cilmi was born in the Melbourne suburb of Dandenong. Of Italian and Albanian heritage, she moved to London with her family when she was fifteen, where she currently lives with her parents Paula and Joe (whose origins are in Calabria and Sicily, Italy) and her brother Joseph.      At an early age, Cilmi developed an interest in a wide range of pop music acts, including Nina Simone, Led Zeppelin, Janis Joplin, The Sweet, T. Rex and Cat Stevens. She has also cited Suzi Quatro as a particular influence. Despite her natural aptitude and vocal talent, Cilmi was told that she lacked the discipline necessary to pursue a singing career. Idolising Janis Joplin, during this time she sang with a band (Foucault) covering songs by Led Zeppelin, Jet, Silverchair and others. Cilmi recorded original songs with writer/producers Barbara and Adrian Hannan of The SongStore.      In 2004, Cilmi captured the attention of Warner Music executive Michael Parisi while giving an impromptu rendition of the Rolling Stones’ song “Jumpin’ Jack Flash” at the Lygon Street Festa, a community festival in Melbourne. At the age of 13, Cilmi travelled to the US and UK with Adrian Hannan and was offered four major US deals. She eventually signed a contract with Island Records UK.      Cilmi’s first album, Lessons to Be Learned, was written and recorded with hit production team Xenomania and was released in March 2008 in the UK. Cilmi has been compared to Amy Winehouse. The first single, “Sweet About Me”, debuted on the UK Singles Chart that month and climbed to number six three months later, in June. It reached number seventeen on the Irish Singles Chart, and peaked at number one on the Australian ARIA Singles Chart. The song was used in a worldwide advertising campaign for the deodorant Sure/Rexona. Cilmi’s second UK single, “Save the Lies”, was not as successful as “Sweet About Me”, peaking at number thirty-three in the UK. In Australia, the second single from the album was “Don’t Wanna Go to Bed Now”, which reached number twenty-eight. The subsequent single, “Sanctuary”, was issued in November 2008 and failed to chart.      The lead single of Gabriella Cilmi’s Ten is “On a Mission”. It was released on 5 February 2010 in Australia and on 7 March 2010 in Europe. As soon as the song was broadcast on Australian radios, it reached number-one most added track to Australian radio in its second week of release, getting played 296 times. The song reached number 9 on the UK Singles Chart and number sixteen in Australia