Kishore Kumar (4 August 1929 – 13 October 1987) was a popular Indian film playback singer, actor, lyricist, composer, producer, director, screenplay writer and scriptwriter. He sang in many Indian languages including Bengali, Hindi, Marathi, Assamese, Gujarati, Kannada, Bhojpuri, Malayalam, Oriya, and Urdu. He won 8 Filmfare Awards for Best Male Playback Singer and holds the record for winning the most Filmfare Awards in that category. Along with [Mukesh](http://www.last.fm/music/Mukesh) and [Mohammed Rafi](http://www.last.fm/music/Mohammed+Rafi), he was one of the three leading male Bollywood playback singers from the 1950s to the mid-1980s.      Abhas Kumar Ganguly was born in Khandwa, now in Madhya Pradesh, to Kunjilal Ganguly, a Brahmin lawyer by profession, and Gouri Devi, both of whom came from wealthy landowning families. Kishore was the youngest in the Ganguly family, preceded by Ashok, Sati, & Anoop. While Kishore was still a child, his brother Ashok became a Bollywood actor. Later, Anoop also ventured into cinema with Ashok’s help. Post Ashok Kumar’s stardom, the Ganguly family shifted base to Mumbai. This was also the time when Abhas Kumar Ganguly changed his name to Kishore Kumar. His first venture into the big cinema career was as a chorus singer in the film “Bombay Talkies”. His first film as an actor was in the film called “Shikari” which was released in the year 1946, wherein Ashok Kumar was the lead hero. In 1948, Kishore Kumar got a chance to sing the song “Marne Ki Duayen Kyon Mangu” for the film “Ziddi”. After this, he got many other assignments, but he was not very serious about a film career. Although his films flopped initially, he achieved success as a comic hero with movies like “New Delhi”, “Half Ticket” and “Padosan”. All the praise and honor for his acting skills was still not the platform for his successful throne. He achieved his varied and unrivalled fame only after he was recognized as an established singer. Spending time with his brothers, Kishore became interested in films and music. He became a fan of singer-actor K. L. Saigal—whom he considered his vocal guru—and tried to emulate his singing style.The popular music director Sachin Dev Burman, who was impressed by his singing skills, advised him not to copy Saigal but develop and condense his own style. Kishore kept this advice in mind and eventually developed his own style of singing, prominently featuring the yodelling that he had heard on some records bought by his brother Anoop. In the Bollywood music circles, yodelling became Kishore’s trademark.      With time, music directors started recognizing the potential of Kishore Kumar and he became one of the leading singers in the Indian film industry. The 1960s was a lean patch in Kumar’s career graph. Most of his films bombed at the box office. However, in 1969 the tables turned once again, as R. D. Burman took over the recording initiatives after S. D. Burman fell ill for the film “Aradhana”. R. D