“I’m a firm believer that every time you sit down to write a song you should try and write a hit record.” So says Sharleen Spiteri, a singer and songwriter who already knows more than a thing or two about hit records as the frontwoman of Texas. Formed in Glasgow in 1986, Texas were one of the great success stories of ‘90s pop, selling over one and a half million copies of their 1996 album White On Blonde in the UK alone. In a decade dominated by male guitar bands, Spiteri was a welcome female alternative, blessed with a smooth, soulful voice but unafraid to strap on her black 1967 Telecaster guitar and rock out with the best of them.      By 2005, Texas could boast a staggering 15 platinum discs (six-a-piece for White On Blonde and 2000’s Greatest Hits, another three for 1999’s The Hush) and 13 top ten hits including such modern pop classics as ‘Say What You Want’, ‘Summer Son’ and their bluesy 1989 debut, ‘I Don’t Want A Lover’. “Texas are my family and they’ll always be there,” says Sharleen. “But after the last record, everybody decided they wanted to do different things and different projects. I had to think about what I wanted to do with my life, on top of which my life was going through some big personal changes. So I just decided, that’s it. I need to make a solo record and step up to the challenge. When I told the boys in Texas, they just said, ‘Great. You go for it.’ So I did.”      The result is Melody - the stunning solo debut from the face and voice of one of the biggest British bands of recent times. Not only did Sharleen write the whole album, she also produced it, taking complete artistic control of its every sonic nuance. Steeped in the sound and textures of ‘60s soul, ‘50s rock’n’roll and doo-wop, it’s an album that’s vintage in flavour yet utterly contemporary in spirit. Beside the new generation of retro-obsessed UK songbirds such as Amy Winehouse, Duffy and Adele, it’s a timely reminder that Sharleen was already dabbling in similar influences over a decade ago, be it Tamla Motown (‘Black Eyed Boy’), Marvin Gaye (‘Say What You Want’) or Elvis Presley (cross-dressing up as The King for 2001’s ‘Inner Smile’ video). Going solo has allowed her the freedom to indulge in such consuming passions even further, creating an album that proudly wears its influences on its sleeve. “I’ve always wanted to make a Nancy Sinatra record,” she explains. “That was never going to happen with Texas, but being on my own meant I could take complete control and make the kind of album I’ve always dreamed of. That’s what Melody is all about. It’s my dream Nancy and Lee Hazlewood record, but with Johnny Cash, Motown, Elvis, The Righteous Brothers, all these things thrown in. That’s what it boils down to. My ultimate personal fantasy record.”      From the very first note of ‘It Was You’, Melody announces itself as a musically stylish, lyrically powerful journey in which Sharleen exorcises her personal heartbreak to a classic pop soundtrack