If you are looking for the band “E.S.G.” from 1978-today (Founded in Brooklyn, NY) - see “ESG”.      E.S.G., or Cedric Hill as he was born, is a rapper from Houston, Texas (although he was born in Louisiana and moved to Houston later in life) who played a key role in the development of Houston’s ‘Chopped And Screwed’ sound alongside DJ Screw in the mid to late ’90s, beginning with his debut LP “Oceans Of Funk” in 1994. The more popular songs from this album were repackaged with new songs and released as a faux-sophomore effort by Perrion Entertainment in 1995, as the landmark “Sailin’ Da South”. This album contained several radio-friendly, summery tracks, none moreso than Swangin’ & Bangin’, which was also re-worked (or “screwed”) by close friend DJ Screw. Both the original track and its slowed down alter-ego cemented Hill’s place as a mainstay in the burgeoning Houston rap scene and also the wider southern rap movement.      E.S.G. spent several years in jail following an incident in which his partner was shot dead in a home invasion. E.S.G. returned fire and killed the intruder (“Nigga broke in my crib, shot my partner in the head, so I grab my chopper left a bitch nigga dead”). He was subsequently charged with first degree murder and was incarcerated before beating the charge. “Sailin’ Da South” was released and gained him notoriety while he was on lock.      He was then released and increased his workrate, releasing Return Of The Living Dead shortly after in 1998. He is an original member of Screwed Up Click, the group formed by the late DJ Screw.      E.S.G. is known for having ongoing beef with other Houston rappers, namely Slim Thug, whom Hill claims cut him out of a potential deal, and also Lil’ Flip, for reasons less publicly documented (“Had Flip under my wing, Slim Thug too, and both them niggaz switch like some homosexuals do”).      E.S.G. is married and has a son and a daughter. His father died from complications related to Auto Immune Deficiency Syndrome / Human Immunodeficiency Virus during E’s childhood in Bogalusa, Louisiana (“Then my daddy died, he had full blown AIDS, he was tootin’ up, then that nigga started shootin’ up”). This left E with his uncle as his primary male role model during his youth (“Uncle started recruitin’ us, he was hustlin’ crack, it’s safe to say I was born in the trap”).      In the early ’90s, he moved from Bogalusa to nearby Lafayette, Louisiana, while attending USL (University of Southern Louisiana), before again moving to Houston, Texas, where he made his name as a rapper (“Sold my first thirty Gs, game’s gettin’ deeper, moved to H-Town ‘cause the bricks were cheaper”).  