Sheena Easton (born Sheena Shirley Orr, 27 April 1959) is a two-time Grammy Award winning Pop singer and actress originally from Bellshill, Scotland. Sheena became famous for being the subject of the UK TV programme “The Big Time”, a late 70s reality TV series which recorded her attempts to gain a record contract. She suceeded spectacularly by having two singles in the U.K. top 10 at the same time in 1980. She eventually signed with EMI Records.      Easton rose to fame in the early 1980s with the pop hits “9 to 5” (known as “Morning Train” in the United States), “For Your Eyes Only”, “Strut”, “Sugar Walls”, “U Got the Look” with Prince, and “The Lover in Me”. She went on to become successful in the United States and Japan, working with prominent vocalists and producers, such as Prince, Christopher Neil, Kenny Rogers, David Foster, Luis Miguel, L.A. Reid and Babyface, Patrice Rushen, and Nile Rodgers.      In the United States, Easton is a two-time Grammy Award winner with 4 additional Grammy nominations, an Oscar nomination, sold 7 Gold albums and 1 Platinum and has sold over 4 million albums in the US alone, and over 20 million records worldwide. She has recorded 16 studio albums, released 45 singles, and has 15 Top 40 hits on the US Billboard Hot 100 and 25 top 40 hits in territories around the world . Sheena Easton is the only artist in the history of the US Billboard charts to have top 5 hit on each of the Billboards key charts consecutively: Adult Contemporary, Dance, Pop, Country, and R&B. In the UK, Easton has 3 top 40 albums and 8 top 40 singles to date. Easton’s 1980 debut singles, “Modern Girl” and ” 9 to 5,” entered into the UK top ten, making her the first UK female artist to appear twice in the same top ten.      Trivia:      In the entire James Bond series, Sheena is the only artist seen performing a song in the title sequence, in “For Your Eyes Only”.      She guest starred on “Miami Vice” in 1987, portraying Caitlin Davies, Sonny Crockett’s wife   (personal addition).      Sheena was given a special award from “Billboard” magazine as being the first artist to crack the Top 5 on five key singles charts; Hot 100, Adult Contemporary, R&B, Dance and Country.   (personal addition).  