Vybz Kartel (born Adidja Palmer, Jan. 7, 1976) is a Jamaican dancehall deejay.      He was born at Kingston’s Victoria Jubilee Hospital, and was one of six children. Originally from Waterhouse, Kingston, he was raised in the Waterford district in the community Portmore, Jamaica. Adidja attended Calabar High School in Kingston but was expelled as a teenager. Determined to continue his education, he completed his studies at a tutorial technical school.      He was exposed to a wide variety of music from a tender age by two uncles who were themselves aspiring musicians. Every weekend he was treated to new musical offerings, on his uncle’s old component set, ranging from Sam Cooke to country and western ballads to Ninja Man, who became one of his musical heroes.      At 10 his favorites included artists as diverse as Ninja Man, Papa San, Charlie Chaplin, Will Smith and KRS-1, all of whose lyrics he would study word-for-word, performing them later for friends.      He decided he wanted to be a deejay and began writing his own lyrics when he was 11. Eager to flaunt his skills, Adidja and his friends frequented the weekly Gong Talent Show at the Coney Amusement Park on the outskirts of Kingston. To their chagrin, they were always gonged off when they got a chance to perform.      Undeterred by his weekly failure to impress the talent show audience, Adidja decided to hone his skills and concentrate on winning over his own community of Waterford until he was ready for bigger things. With that goal in mind, on weekends he would practise on neighborhood sound systems Soul Signal and Electric Force.      In 1993, Adidja recorded his first single, “Love Fat Woman,” for Alvin Reid’s One Heart Label under the name Adi Banton, a name he chose in tribute to a role model, Buju Banton. He recorded several more tracks for local producers, perfecting his craft.      In 1996 he and two friends, Mr. Lee and a singer called Escobar, decided to form a group. One night, after watching a movie about Pablo Escobar and his infamous cartel, Adidja came up with a name for his trio: Vibes Cartel.      Vybz Kartel’s new role as Killer’s protege caught the attention of the public and led to a meteoric career rise, first as a ghost-writer for Bounty, Elephant Man and other members of the Scare Dem Crew, followed by collaborations with Bounty Killer, such as “Gal Clown” and “Girls Like Mine (Liquid Riddim).”      He came into his own with early hits like “Gun Clown,” “Guns Like Mine (Trafalga Riddim),” “Badman (Panty Raid Riddim),” “Bus Mi Gun Like Nuttn,” “Most High (Mexican Riddim)” and “War Organizer (Clappas Riddim).” He also had a string of successful collaborations with Wayne Marshall, including “New Millennium (Mad Antz Riddim),” “Why (Krazy Riddim)” and “Why Again (Good To Go Riddim).” This unprecedented debut led to Vybz Kartel being crowned 2002 Deejay of the Year at Stone Love’s 30th anniversary, a feat unmatched by any new artist in dancehall