Billy Bragg (Stephen William Bragg, Barking, Essex, England, 20 December, 1957) is an English singer-songwriter and left-wing activist. His music blends elements of folk music, punk rock and protest songs, and his lyrics mostly deal with political or romantic themes.      In 1977, Bragg formed the punk rock/pub rock band [Riff Raff](http://www.last.fm/music/Riff+Raff), and toured London’s pubs and clubs. The band released a series of singles, which did not receive wide exposure. He also worked in Guy Norris Records in Barking. Bragg became disillusioned with his music career, and in May 1981 joined the British Army as a recruit destined for the Queen’s Royal Irish Hussars of the Royal Armoured Corps. After three months, he bought his way out of the army for £175 and returned home, having attended basic training but having never served in a regiment as a soldier.      Bragg began performing frequent concerts and busking around London, playing solo with an electric guitar. His roadie at the time was Andy Kershaw, who became a BBC DJ (Bragg and Kershaw later, in 1989, appeared in an episode of the BBC TV programme, Great Journeys, in which they travelled the Silver Road from Potosí, Bolivia, to the Pacific coast at Arica, Chile). Bragg performing at South by Southwest in 2008.      Bragg’s demo tape initially got no response from the record industry, but by pretending to be a television repair man, he got into the office of Charisma Records’ A&R man Peter Jenner. Jenner liked the tape, but the company was near bankruptcy and had no budget to sign new artists. Bragg got an offer to record more demos for a music publisher, so Jenner agreed to release them as a record. Life’s a Riot with Spy Vs. Spy was released in July 1983 by Charisma’s new imprint, Utility. Hearing DJ John Peel mention on-air that he was hungry, Bragg rushed to the BBC with a mushroom biryani, so Peel played a song from Life’s a Riot with Spy Vs. Spy although at the wrong speed (since the 12” LP was, unconventionally, cut to play at 45rpm). Peel insisted he would have played the song even without the biryani and later played it at the correct speed.      Within months, Charisma had been taken over by Virgin Records and Jenner, who had been laid off, became Bragg’s manager. Stiff Records’ press officer Andy Macdonald – who was setting up his own record label, Go! Discs – received a copy of Life’s a Riot with Spy Vs. Spy. He made Virgin an offer and the album was re-released on Go! Discs in November 1983.[citation needed] In 1984, he released Brewing Up with Billy Bragg, a mixture of political songs (e.g., “It Says Here”) and songs of unrequited love (e.g., “The Saturday Boy”). The following year he released Between the Wars, an EP of political songs that included a cover version of Leon Rosselson’s “The World Turned Upside Down” – the EP made the top 20 of the UK Singles Chart and earned Bragg an appearance on Top of the Pops