It is often said that actions speak louder than words … yet in some cases it’s the words you speak that can cause life changing actions. SPEAK THOSE THINGS … a 3-word command, a simple statement and the powerful title to FRED HAMMOND’s upcoming new solo album.      To speak those things, is to literally speak life into situations that bring about death and decrease. “By speaking life into your problems,” said Hammond, “You allow God to hear you and God will show you the solutions. That is the attitude of this album.”      Hammond’s, “SPEAK THOSE THINGS: POL Chapter 3” addresses who God is and what He can do in our lives. It is no departure from the now “duplicated” ‘Hammond signature’ of urban praise and worship, but the approach of the album is focused on the worshipper calling on the Lord, praising Him, knowing Him and desiring to be closer to Him. It is 15-tracks of high-impact praise & Gospel music that is aimed at changing lives and bringing about solutions.      In the aftermath of last September, Hammond recalls seeking God and seeing Him work in all situations. “In the midst of misery and hopelessness, we have to see where God is and trusting that His hand is in everything around us.” Pointedly conveying this message; and in only a way that Hammond can, is the compelling song “Show Yourself Strong.”      Directly inspired by what he saw happening around him, “America rallied together and everywhere people began to pray. This song is calling out to God … ‘Oh, Lord we’re calling you, show yourself strong’,” said Hammond. “People everywhere began to pray and there was a time and need for prayer … I was just thinking, we need you now God, if we’ve ever needed you before we need you now.”      Song after song the album serves as a reminder to turn to God no matter what the situation. “Praise Him Through The Night,” a direct message to praise God even in the middle of adversity. “My focus is on praise & worship in the middle of the fight,” said Hammond. “Even in the toughest of times, God is always around somewhere, and I will continue to praise to Him.” Lyrically, it is a beautiful ballad that brings about a sense of peace that supports the message that it is through praise and worship, that we rebuild our strength.      In distinctive Fred Hammond fashion, the album kicks off in high gear with 2 slammin’ praise & worship cuts. Like a 1-2 punch, “You Are My Daily Bread,” and “Lord of the Harvest,” contains that signature feel and sound that has positioned Hammond as one of Gospel music’s most successful hit makers. Dynamic, powerful and vibrant, the songs defy any listener to stay in their seats.      The feelings of encouragement and healing are palpable throughout this CD, from the collaborative “Song of Strength,” featuring the F.Hammond Music family (Joann Rosario, The Singletons and Shea Norman); to the smooth sounding “I Will Say,” which verbalize the albums’ entire theme