Johnny Rivers (born John Henry Ramistella on November 7, 1942 in New York City) is an American rock and roll singer, songwriter, guitarist, and record producer.   He was versatile enough to do folk songs, blues, covers of old-time Rock n’ roll songs, and some original material, all of them in his own unique style. Rivers’s greatest success came in the mid and late 1960s with a string of hit songs (including “Seventh Son,” “Poor Side of Town” and “Secret Agent Man”) but he has continued to record and perform to the present.      In 1960, Rivers met fellow Louisianan, James Burton, the guitar player for Ricky Nelson. Burton later recommended one of Rivers’s songs to Nelson, who went on to record it. In 1961, Rivers went to Los Angeles to meet Nelson, and ended up relocating there, working as a song writer and studio musician. In 1963, Rivers’s big break came when he temporarily filled in for a jazz combo at Bill Gazzari’s night club; the temporary gig became long-term due to positive customer response.      In 1964, Elmer Valentine then gave Rivers a one-year contract to open his new club, Whisky a Go Go, on Sunset Strip in West Hollywood. The Whisky opened three days before The Beatles released “I Want To Hold Your Hand” and the British Invasion knocked almost every American artist off the top of the charts. But Rivers was so popular, producer Lou Adler decided to issue Johnny Rivers Live At The Whiskey A Go Go. The live album reached #12 on the charts and the single “Memphis” (a Chuck Berry cover) reached #2. Rivers made the successful transition from nightclub entertainer to chart-busting pop singer and had created the Go Go sound, part of a scene which included Go-Go dancers.   Into 1965, Rivers continued to record mostly live, Go Go style records including “Maybellene” (another Berry cover), which he followed “Mountain of Love”, “Midnight Special”, “Seventh Son” (written by Willie Dixon) e “Where Have All The Flowers Gone” (with Pete Seeger’s), all of which were hits.      Rivers wanted to try something different and adopted a more idiosyncratic approach as from 1966. Characterized by his smooth, soulful voice, he produced hit portrayals as “Poor Side Of Town”, which would be his biggest hit ever and his only number one record. Into another hit was “Secret Agent Man”, the theme from Secret Agent television series (written by P.F. Sloan and Steve Barri). He also started own record company, Soul City Records, where he won a Grammy Award as the producer of the 5th Dimension, which eventually recorded “Aquarius/Let The Sun Shine In” and “Wedding Bell Blues”, two number one hits on Rivers’ label. Johnny is also credited with giving songwriter Jimmy Webb a major break when they recorded Webb’s song “Up, Up, and Away”. James Hendricks, one of the artists of that signed with Soul City, wrote “Summer Rain”, a song that Rivers recorded and turned a hit