No stranger to bad luck and hardships, North Carolina native Supastition has managed to use those setbacks as inspiration to create his own vibe of emotionally-driven hip hop. After brief yet unsuccessful stints in 2002 with indie label Freshchest Records as well as Rasco’s Pockets Linted Entertainment, Supastition’s turning point came when his collaboration with producer Nicolay was hand-selected by ?uestlove (of The Roots) out of over 5,000 contestants to appear on the Okayplayer Records compilation. His song entitled “The Williams” received critical praise as one of the standout tracks on the album and hip hop heads worldwide began noticing Supa and his knack for making honest music that the average person could relate to.      After interest from several labels, Supastition signed with indie label Soulspazm Records and released his follow-up “The Deadline” EP which served as a predecessor to his sophomore album “Chain Letters”. The lead 12’ single from the EP, “Boombox” (produced by Illmind), reached #2 on national college radio charts and received acclaim from veteran DJs such as Revolution, Faust & Shortee, and Rhettmatic. “Boombox” was also featured on MTV2 as part of the “One Life: The Love, The Game” special along with the DVD and also chosen to appear on France native DJ Cam’s “My Playlist” CD on Wagram Music. DJ Cam was quoted as saying “It reminds me (of) the pure golden age of hip hop… love it”. The Deadline served as the perfect appetizer for Supastition’s upcoming album “Chain Letters”.   supa      The future looks promising for the Greenville, NC emcee who will be releasing his sophomore LP “Chain Letters” in late 2005 on Soulspazm. “Chain Letters” has been proclaimed by Supastition and others as his best work to date and will include production from his main producer Illmind in addition to some of hip hop’s dopest beat makers including Nicolay, M-phazes, Jake One, and more. Little Brother and Lost Colony alumni Seven will appear on the release as well as vocalists such as Nonameko, Dminor, and Can’Tell. Supastition will continue to blaze guest appearances as he has done in the past (KRS One and CunninLynguists) on forthcoming releases from Little Brother (Chitlin’ Circuit 1.5), 9th Wonder (Dream Merchant Vol. 2), OneMind (BBE Records), Muneshine (Handcuts), and many more.      After fighting his way through the industry, the tables have turned and Supastition is set to shock the world with his flawless delivery and witty wordplay. Backed by his production crew Wax Reform and his North Carolina unit Lost Colony, it’s only a matter of time before his name is mentioned in the same vein as some of hip hop most praised artists. The bad luck is over; it’s time for the rest of the world to believe in Supastition.  