María Laura Corradini popularly known as Chenoa (born June 25, 1975 in Mar del Plata, Argentina) is a famous female music artist in Spain who became successful after appearing on TV contest Operación Triunfo. Her music style could be described in the United States mostly as “pop”. Most of her music is in Spanish, although a few tracks on each album were recorded in English. Although her albums are not readily available in the US record shelves as they are in Spain, they can be found on the Internet.      Chenoa was born in Mar de Plata (Argentina) on June 25, 1975, although her family moved to Spain when she was 8. Her parents were both musicians and they used to work in hotels as singers in live music shows, so Chenoa has lived and breathed music since birth.      At the age of 16, Chenoa began to sing professionally taking part in her parent’s show. Her mother fell ill and Chenoa had to stand in for her.      She graduated as a teacher in nursery school, and started performing in the Casino de Mallorca shows when she was 20. There, Chenoa acquired a good stage presence before entering the first edition of the Spanish TV show Operación Triunfo in 2001.      Her first album was “Chenoa”, released in April 2002 in Spain. The first single was Atrévete, a song whose English version is also included in the album as Mystify, but the greatest hit of this CD was Cuando tu vas, danced all over Spain in the summer of ‘02. “Chenoa” sold over 500,000 copies in Spain after 61 weeks in Top 100 chart, and she was nominated for the Spanish music industry awards Premios Amigo as best female new artist, and best female artist. Year 2002 finished with a Spanish tour that included more than 70 dates.      In April 2003 Chenoa took part in Eurobest, an European song contest in which she performed “It’s raining men”. Her great stage presence led her to victory.      The unplugged album “Mis canciones favoritas” was Chenoa’s second CD. It was recorded in Barcelona in April 2003, and included some of her favorite songs, such as: Man in the mirror, Respect, Chain of fools or Love of my life. This CD+DVD was released on a limited edition of 100,000 copies for fans.      “Soy Mujer” was the chosen title for her second studio album, recorded in Miami and Madrid in 2003. Pop, rock, and latin, arab and anglosaxon sounds are mixed in this CD, which reached number one in the Spanish album chart, and sold more than 230,000 copies after 47 weeks in the Top 100. “En tu cruz me clavaste”, “Soy lo que me das”, “Siete Pétalos”, “Dame and Soy Mujer were the singles released. Chenoa was nominated again for the Premios Amigo award as best female artist and completed an 80-date tour in Spain. In 2004 she was nominated for the Tu Música award as best new artist, in Puerto Rico.      In May and June 2004 she started “Soy Mujer” promotional tour around Venezuela, Puerto Rico and Argentina. In December she visited Panama, Costa Rica and Dominican Republic