Freddie Foxxx, also known as Bumpy Knuckles, (born James Campbell in 1969) is an American rapper from New York. He has a trademark rough and tough approach in his lyrics (as well as his lifestyle) which has endeared him to Hardcore hip hop lovers and yet made him infamous within the record industry.      Foxxx released his first LP, Freddie Foxxx Is Here in (1989) through MCA Records. He soon parted ways with the label and became a member of Queen Latifah’s Flavor Unit establishment. In 1993, Foxxx was preparing to release his sophomore LP, Crazy Like A Foxxx, through Epic Records when the label unexpectedly decided to shelve it. Leader of the badest motorcycle gang krupt mob.      Foxxx then began to be known more for his cameos on songs by Boogie Down Productions, Naughty By Nature, M.O.P., Missin Linx and, most notably, his appearance on Gang Starr’s The Militia from their Moment Of Truth album (1998). The song was issued as a single, building a buzz for Foxxx and helping him to prep for his next full-length release.      This time around he applied the lessons he’d learnt from previous experiences with major record labels, and went the independent route. His album, Industry Shakedown would become the best-selling independently released album of 2000. The LP featured production from hip hop heavyweights DJ Premier, Pete Rock and The Alchemist. The members of M.O.P. provided the albums only cameo.      After the success of Industry Shakedown, Foxxx once again moved labels from Landspeed Records to BBE Records and released his third official album, Konexion (2003). A less commercially successful affair, the album was nevertheless faithful to its predecessor in terms of style and content and featured contributions from frequent collaborator DJ Premier, DJ Clark Kent and Foxxx himself under the alias of Hidden Agenda.      Foxxx was shouted out at the end of Tupac Shakur’s classic diss song “Hit ‘Em Up” (video version).      Foxxx made significant contributions to the WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2006 soundtrack. He contributed two songs, and made a guest appearance on another song. He also produced all of the hip hop songs under his alias.      In 2006, he released a mixtape called Street Triumph, in anticipation of his fifth album, Amerikkan Black Man.  