Mundy (born Edmund Enright in Birr, County Offaly in 1976) is an Irish singer- songwriter. He released his debut album Jellylegs in 1996 on the Epic Records label. The album included the song “To You I Bestow”, which was featured on the bestselling soundtrack to Baz Luhrmann’s film adaptation of Romeo and Juliet.      In 2000, Mundy was dropped by Epic while working on his second album, The Moon is a Bullethole, which was about to be recorded. Although a four-track EP of that title was released, much of the material for the cancelled album was eventually incorporated into 24 Star Hotel, Mundy’s 2002 album.      24 Star Hotel was released on Camcor Records - a label Mundy himself set up, primarily funded by his royalties from the Romeo and Juliet soundtrack. Camcor Records is named for the Camcor River, a popular fishing spot, which runs through the town of Birr. The album contained the song “July”, an ode to the joys of the Irish summer, which gained heavy airplay throughout the summer months, and is, for Irish audiences at least, Mundy’s signature tune. Other record labels based in Birr include [Roesy](http://www.last.fm/music/Roesy)’s Blue Coak Records and [Canabrism](http://www.last.fm/music/Canabrism)’s Podcomplex Records, both artists being former schoolmates of Mundy.      In 2003 Mundy also contributed to Afro Celt Sound System’s album Seed, and to Even Better than the Real Thing Vol. 1 with a cover version of the Shakira song Whenever, Wherever, only with the two words in the title switched around.      In May 2004, Mundy released his third album, Raining Down Arrows, which entered the Irish album chart at number 1. The album has since gone platinum.      Mundy’s collaboration with Sharon Shannon on the track “Galway Girl” has become a cult hit recently, thanks to RTÉ 2fm playing the track every Friday since Will Leahy took on the drive time show.      Mundy is the cousin of Fine Gael TD Olwyn Enright and the nephew of long- standing former TD and Senator Tom Enright.  