Jackson Browne (born Clyde Jackson Browne; October 9, 1948) is an American rock singer-songwriter and musician who has sold millions of albums worldwide. Coming to prominence in the 1970s, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004.      Browne was born in Heidelberg, Germany (his father was an American serviceman stationed in Germany), but moved to the Highland Park district of Los Angeles, California at an early age and began singing folk music locally. In 1966, his career began by joining [The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band](http://www.last.fm/music/The+Nitty+Gritty+Dirt+Band).      A precociously-talented songwriter, Browne signed a publishing contract with Nina Music, and his songs have been performed by Tom Rush, the Eagles, Nico, Linda Ronstadt, the Byrds and Steve Noonan, among others.      After moving to Greenwich Village, New York, Browne worked, for a brief period, in Tim Buckley’s back-up band and on Nico’s Chelsea Girl. This album includes two of Jackson’s songs and the pair were reputedly lovers for awhile. After leaving New York City, Browne formed a folk band with Ned Doheny and Jack Wilce.      In 1971, Browne signed with Asylum Records and released Jackson Browne (1972), which included “Doctor My Eyes”, a major hit and later coverec by the Jackson Five . He didn’t sustain pop success, though, and his next album, For Everyman (1973), while considered of high quality, was a commercial failure.      Late for the Sky (1974) established a significant audience for Browne, and fans and critics often consider this Browne’s best album. Highlights include the searching title song, the elegiac “For a Dancer” and apocalyptic “Before the Deluge”, the pure arrangements featuring David Lindley’s evocative violin and guitar playing, and the Magritte-inspired cover. The title track was also featured in Martin Scorsese’s film, Taxi Driver.      Browne released his breakthrough album, The Pretender (1976) soon after the suicide of his wife, Phyllis. Featuring livelier production by Jon Landau, the title song is a vividly described account of trying to maintain one’s ideals in the struggle against the realities of day-to-day life.      During this time, Browne produced and played on [Warren Zevon](http://www.last.fm/music/Warren+Zevon)’s first two Asylum albums.      Browne began recording his next LP while on tour, and Running on Empty (1977) became his biggest commercial success. Breaking the usual conventions for a live album, it was truly made on the road, including tracks recorded on buses and in hotel rooms, with none of the songs having appeared on any of his prior albums. Running on Empty contains many renowned songs, such as the propulsive title track (Browne’s biggest hit single), “The Road”, “Rosie”, and “The Load- Out/Stay” (Browne’s affectionate and knowing send-off to his concert audiences).      In 1979, Browne was a founding member of Musicians United for Safe Energy