**Thelonious Sphere Monk** (Rocky Mount, North Carolina 10th October 1917 - Hartsdale, New York 17th February 1982) was a [jazz](http://www.last.fm/tag/jazz) pianist and composer.      Widely considered as one of the most important musicians in jazz — he is one of only five jazz musicians to be featured on the cover of Time — Monk had a unique improvisational style and made numerous contributions to the standard jazz repertoire, including “Epistrophy,” “‘Round Midnight,” “Blue Monk,” “Straight No Chaser” and “Well, You Needn’t.”      He could play be-bop but commented that be-bop “sounds like dixieland to me.” His compositions and improvisations are full of dissonant harmonies and angular melodic twists, and are impossible to separate from Monk’s unorthodox approach to the piano, which combined a highly percussive attack with abrupt, dramatic use of silences and hesitations; a style nicknamed “Melodious Thunk” by his wife Nellie.      Early life   Monk was born 10th October 1917 in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, the son of Thelonious and Barbara Monk, two years after his sister Marian. A brother, Thomas, was born a couple of years later. In 1922, the family moved to 243 West 63rd Street, in Manhattan. Monk started playing the piano at the age of six. Although he had some formal training and eavesdropped on his sister’s piano lessons, he was essentially self-taught. Monk attended Stuyvesant High School, but did not graduate. He briefly toured with an evangelist in his teens, playing the church organ, and in his late teens he began to find work playing jazz.      Monk is believed to be the pianist featured on recordings Jerry Newman made around 1941 at Minton’s Playhouse, the legendary Manhattan club where Monk was the house pianist. Monk’s style at the time was described as “hard-swinging,” with the addition of runs in the style of Art Tatum. Monk’s stated influences include Duke Ellington, James P. Johnson, and other early stride pianists. Monk’s unique piano style was largely perfected during his stint as the house pianist at Minton’s in the early-to-mid 1940s, when he participated in the famous after-hours “cutting competitions” that featured most of the leading jazz soloists of the day. The Minton’s scene was crucial in the formulation of the bebop genre and it brought Monk into close contact and collaboration with other leading exponents of bebop, including Dizzy Gillespie, Charlie Christian, Kenny Clarke, Charlie Parker and later, Miles Davis.      Early recordings (1944–1954)   In 1944 Monk made his first studio recordings with the Coleman Hawkins Quartet. Hawkins was among the first prominent jazz musicians to promote Monk, and Monk later returned the favor by inviting Hawkins to join him on the 1957 session with John Coltrane. Monk made his first recordings as leader for Blue Note in 1947 (later anthologised on Genius of Modern Music, Vol. 1) which showcased his talents as a composer of original melodies for improvisation