Laura Branigan was a singer, songwriter, and actress born on July 3rd **1957** in the upstate New York town of Brewster and raised in nearby Armonk, New York, USA. It wasn’t until her senior year in high school, where she performed the lead role in a school musical, that she began to consider a career in entertainment. After graduation from high school, Laura moved to Manhattan and attended The American Academy of Dramatic Arts.      In the early 1970s Branigan was a member of the band [Meadow](http://www.last.fm/music/Meadow), which released one album in   1973 called The Friend Ship. In the late 70’s she toured Europe as a backing vocalist for [Leonard Cohen](http://www.last.fm/music/Leonard+Cohen). Upon Laura’s return to New York, it became clear to her that she wanted to pursue a career as a solo artist. Laura’s powerful talent, as well as her drive and determination, led to her being signed by Atlantic Records founder, Ahmet Ertegun. Her first album, known as [Silver Dreams](http://www.last.fm/music/Laura+Branigan/Silver+Dreams), was to be released in 1981 but it was canceled due to a contract lawsuit with her management.      Laura’s first major appearance on the pop scene was with the anthem “Gloria” in 1982, which has become the signature song of her career. The track came from Laura’s debut album, Branigan. “Gloria” was a multi-platinum hit single, rising to the top of the Billboard charts and staying on the charts for an amazing thirty-six weeks. Laura received a Grammy nomination for Best Pop Vocalist Female for the song.      In 1983, Laura released Branigan 2 and had two more top ten hits with “Solitaire” and “How Am I Supposed To Live Without You”, confirming her status as a major artist, with the latter track reaching the #1 position on the adult Contemporary charts. That same year, Laura could also be heard on the Flashdance soundtrack with “Imagination”. Her musical involvement with the film led her to receive her second Grammy nomination.      In 1984, the album Self Control was released with the title track, “Self Control” reaching the top ten. “Self Control” became Laura’s biggest international hit single. Another single from the album, “The Lucky One” went top 40. Laura also won the coveted Grand Prize at the 13th Tokyo Music Festival for her riveting performance of “The Lucky One.”      Laura’s album Hold Me was released in 1985 and included the top 40 hit “Spanish Eddie”. In 1987 Touch was released. With this album, Laura became more personally involved with the recording process. The ballad, “The Power of Love”, returned Laura to the top 40. Throughout the 80’s, Laura’s songs also appeared on the Ghostbusters, Body Rock, Coming To America, and Salsa soundtracks.      Laura released Laura Branigan in 1990. With this album, Laura added producing to her repetoire with her cover of the disco-era “Turn The Beat Around.” Laura’s seventh album, Over My Heart, was released in 1993