Young guitar great, vocalist and entertainer Rick Derringer was just 17 when his band [The McCoys](http://www.last.fm/music/The+McCoys) recorded the No.1 hit “Hang On Sloopy” in the summer of 1965, knocking “Yesterday” by The Beatles out of the top spot.      “The McCoys” had enjoyed four years of successful touring, when Rick merged his talents with Johnny Winter in 1969 forming “Johnny Winter And” (“And” referring to “The McCoys”).      Rick was the only producer of all gold and platinum Winter Brothers recordings.   In ‘71 Rick was featured on three records, “Johnny Winter And”, “Johnny Winter And-Live” and “Edgar Winter’s White Trash”. “And” featured the first version of Derringer’s “Rock and Roll Hoochie Koo” which was also released as a single, then selected again for “And - Live”.      Eventually the busy Derringer joined Edgar’s White Trash full-time and produced the gold LP, “Roadwork”. Derringer’s solo album, “All American Boy” was released in ‘73 with the now already popular “Rock and Roll Hoochie Koo”, this time as a ‘hit’ single.      Rick was writer/producer of Johnny Winter’s “Still Alive and Well” album and was player/producer of the Edgar Winter Group’s hit album, “They Only Come Out At Night”. The latter featured the No. 1, Grammy nominated monster hit, “Frankenstein” and “Free Ride”.      In 1976 Rick created the Derringer Band. He released four albums and in ‘83 returned to his solo career with the LP, “Good Dirty Fun”.      Throughout the 70’s and 80’s the popular Derringer appeared on numerous albums with artists Alice Cooper, Richie Havens, Todd Rundgren and Steely Dan. The list also includes Cyndi Lauper, Barbra Streisand, Kiss, Mason Ruffner and Madam X.      In the mid-80’s, Derringer discovered Weird Al Yancovic, producing music for Grammy-winning albums and videos. Derringer’s productions of the Michael Jackson parodies, the No. 1 hit “Eat It”, and “Who’s Fat”, have been Yancovic’s most successful recordings.      It was also in the 90’s that Rick was selected to be producer/writer/performer of the World Wrestling Federation LP’s. Hulk Hogan’s theme song, “I Am A Real American” was written and performed by Rick in the 80’s as a part of these projects.      Derringer was once again sought after by Edgar Winter and in 1990, performed for the LP, “Edgar Winter and Rick Derringer Live in Japan”. Then in 1999 Rick and Edgar were back together again for their collaboration on his “Winter Blues” CD.      Derringer also recorded four blues CD’s starting in ‘93 with “Back To the Blues” followed by “Electra Blues”, “Blues Deluxe” and his 2000 release “Jackhammer Blues”.      At about that same period Derringer, who seems to be constantly in motion, released his destined-to-be-classic “Tend the Fire” in Europe to rave reviews and is eagerly expected by his loyal fans here in the US.      The year 2001 was another busy one for Rick. His venture back into Rock & Roll with Vanilla Fudge superstars [Carmine Appice](http://www.last