Kumar Sanu (alias Kedarnath Bhattacharya born on September 23, 1957 in Kolkata, India) is a leading playback singer of Bollywood.      Kumar Sanu’s father Pashupati Bhattacharya was a vocalist and composer. He trained Sanu as a singer and tabla player. After getting a degree in commerce from Calcutta University, Sanu began performing publicly in 1979 and really active in 1984, singing at shows and restaurants around Calcutta. He modeled his singing style after Bollywood singer Kishore Kumar. Later he developed his own singing style.   Initial days in Bollywood:      In 1987, music director and singer Jagjit Singh offered Sanu the chance to sing in the Hindi film Andhiyan. Sanu then relocated to Mumbai, where Kalyanji-Anandji gave him chance to sing in the film Jadoogar. Kalyanji- Anandji suggested that he change his name from Kedar Bhattacharya to Kumar Sanu because of the prevalent caste/region-based favoritism in Bollywood and to give him wider appeal outside of a strictly Bengali audience      1990s      Sanu’s breakthrough came in 1990, in form of the film Aashiqui. The music directors Nadeem-Shravan got Sanu to sing all but one of the songs. Sanu gained overnight success. The hit songs from Aashiqui included Sanson ki zaroorat hai jaise, Tu meri zindagi hain, Nazar ke saamne, Jaane jigar jaaneman, Ab Tere Bin Jee Lenge Hum and Dheere, dheere se meri zindagi mein aana. He won the first of his record five consecutive Filmfare awards as Best Male Playback Singer. His next Filmfare Awards came for songs in the movies Saajan (1991), Deewana (1992), Baazigar (1993), and 1942: A Love Story (1994).      Sanu became a favorite with Nadeem-Shravan. He rendered many hit songs in movies like Sadak (Tumhe apna bana ne ki kasam khayi hai), Deewana (title song), Baazigar (title song, Kali kali ankhen), Saajan (Jeeye to jeeye kaise, Mera dil bhi kitna pagal hai), Pardes (Meri Mehbooba, Do dil mil rahe hain), and others.      In late 1990s, Sanu singing career went into decline. He then branched out into acting, appearing in a Bengali film and starting television serials in both Bengali and Hindi. He also did some concerts.      His most recent hit songs include Humraaz, Yeh Dil Aapka Huwa (Pakistan), Karz, Dil Ka Rishta, Indian Babu, Ishq Vishk, Andaaz, Qayamat, Hungama and Footpath. He has also turned his trade at making music for Indian films and also recently as a producer for a new Bollywood film, Utthaan.      Awards      * FilmFare Award 1990 Ab Tere Bin Jeelenge - Aashiqui   * FilmFare Award 1991 ‘Mera dil bhi kitna pagal hai’ - Saajan   * FilmFare Award 1992 Sochenge Tumhe Pyaar Karein Ke Nahin - Deewana   * FilmFare Award 1993 Yeh Kaali Kaali Aakhen - Baazigar   * FilmFare Award 1994 Ek ladki ko dekha to aisa laga - 1942 A Love story   * IIFA Award 2000 for Aankhon ki Gustakhiyan - Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam      Records      Sanu broke the Guinness world record for the most songs recorded in a single day: 28