Micah Levar “Pastor” Troy (born November 18, 1977) is an American rapper and record producer and a member of the hardcore rap group D.S.G.B. (Down South Georgia Boys). After being featured on recordings by such artists as Lil Jon and Ludacris, as well as being featured on the soundtrack to the movie xXx, Troy’s 2002 album Universal Soldier became popular throughout the United States.      Troy, son of a Haitian-American drill instructor turned pastor Alfred Troy, attended Creekside High School. Troy attended Paine College before he fully pursued his career in rap.      Pastor Troy released his first album, We Ready (I Declare War), in 1999. Subsequently, he was featured in several songs by other artists and helped get other up and coming artists get a name for themselves, i.e. Rasheeda/Que bo gold (“do it”), & underground hip-hop producer Joey Cutless, who now produces soundtracks for network television and composes film scores. Ludacris featured Troy on his album Back for the First Time in the song “Get Off Me.” In addition, Pastor Troy is also the front man of the rap group D.S.G.B. (Down South Georgia Boys).DSGB originated in Augusta, Georgia. He was also featured on the collaborative album Kings of Crunk by Lil Jon in the song “Throw it Up”.Troy and then friend Lil’ Jon reached the top of the charts in the south with songs such as “Vice Versa” and “Throw it Up”. Since being in the music industry, Pastor Troy has been in public beefs with Master P[1], Lil Scrappy and The BME Click, and Sno, with whom he has since come to terms. In 2002, Troy’s album Universal Soldier became popular in the South, especially with the song “Are We Cuttin’” featuring Ms. Jade, which was also featured on the soundtrack for the action film xXx that year. The album debuted at #13 on the Billboard 200. In 2003, Troy appeared on Young Jeezy’s 2003 album Come Shop wit’ Me on the track titled “GA”.      Troy later released one of his more commercial albums, By Any Means Necessary, in 2004. This album featured songs like the hit “Ridin’ Big”. Following this release, Pastor Troy was released from his Universal contract because of creativity disputes. He then released Face Off, Part II, which addressed some issues with Lil Scrappy and BME, adding new songs, and even remade some of his hits. In 2005, he appeared with Killer Mike on Chamillionaire’s track “Southern Takeover” off of The Sound of Revenge.      Pastor Troy released three albums in 2006, starting with Stay Tru, then followed by By Choice Or By Force and Atlanta 2 Memphis, which is a collaboration album with Memphis rapper Criminal Manne. Stay Tru debuted at the Billboard 200 at #150, selling 6,000 copies its first week. Currently, Pastor Troy is signed with two record labels. SMC (Stay Tru, Tool Muziq) and Money and Power Records (Face Off Part 2, Atlanta 2 Memphis)      Pastor Troy owns a Customised Ford F-650 truck, which was highlight on The Raw Report DVD , Vol. 1