Adnan Sami Khan (Urdu: عدنان سمیع خان; born 15 August 1973), popularly known simply as Adnan Sami, is a British born singer, musician pianist, actor and composer of Pakistani origin from Canada. His style merges Asian and Western styles and instrumentation and ranges from classical to jazz to modern pop- rock.      Adnan had begun playing the piano at the age of five and was an accomplished concert pianist having performed in several countries such as Sweden and UAE.   He had his first solo album RAAG Time in 1991-92.The song from his latest album Kisi Din ‘Teri Yaad’ was the title track’Jab Chandani Barh Kar’ of his first album. In 1994, he composed music for a film for the first time. The Pakistani film, in which Adnan was the lead with his wife Zeba and famous Indian playback singer Asha Bhosle did the playback, Sargam, was a blockbuster. However, the authorities banned Asha’s voice from the soundtrack which disappointed Adnan. He then had to re-record these songs with Hadiqa Kiyani. After unsuccessfully trying to make it to the competitive Pakistani pop scene in 1997, in 2000, Asha Bhosle teamed up with him to release a collection of love songs named Kabhi to Nazar Milao. The music was also composed by Adnan. According to Adnan, this was a “dream come true” for him. The album became an instant rage and topped the Indipop charts for most of 2001. According to BusinessWeek, the album sold 2 million copies in India.   Songs Kabhi to Nazar milao whose music video featured model Aditi Gowitrikar and Lift karaa de whose music video starred the popular Bollywood star Govinda from the album became immensely popular at this time. The videos were shot by Anil Mehra who had shot popular Hindi movies Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam and Lagaan. Looking at the immense success of this album, Magnasound and Adnan released an album Always yours which is a remix version of numbers from this album.   He soon became a “sensation” which led Hindi filmmaker Boney Kapoor to invite him to give music for his film. This was the beginning for him composing and singing songs for Hindi films very successfully of even the top Hindi film producers of the time like Yash Chopra and Subhash Ghai. Due to the immense popularity of his music videos and live performances, he had even begun getting acting offers at this time.   The song, Tu sirf mera mehboob, from the Hindi movie Ajnabee (2001) sung by Adnan also “became a rage” and was a superhit.   Screen called him the pop personality of the year 2001 and even says that the success of his album Kabhi to Nazar milao “kept the Indian pop music industry alive and breathing” in 2001.   In 2002, Pepsi Foods made Adnan its brand ambassador in India, a contract which involved hosting a series of live music concerts across cities as well as Adnan featuring in ads for Pepsi products. According to the Pakistani newspaper Dawn, no Pakistani artist had managed to gain as much popularity in India as Sami had