Lalo Schifrin (born Boris Claudio Schifrin on June 21, 1932) is an Argentine pianist and composer, most famous for composing the “burning-fuse” theme tune from the Mission:Impossible television series.      Lalo Schifrin was born in Buenos Aires of Jewish heritage. His father, Luis Schifrin, led the second violin section of the orchestra at the Colón Theater for three decades.      At the age of six Schifrin began a six-year course of study on piano with Enrique Barenboim, the father of the pianist and conductor Daniel Barenboim. At age 16, Schifrin began studying piano with the Russian expatriate Andreas Karalis, former head of the Kiev Conservatory, and harmony with Argentine composer Juan-Carlos Paz. During this time, Schifrin also became interested in jazz.      Although Schifrin studied sociology and law at the University of Buenos Aires, it was music that captured his attention. At age 20, he successfully applied for a scholarship to the Paris Conservatoire. While there, he attended Olivier Messiaen’s classes and formally studied with Charles Koechlin, a disciple of Maurice Ravel. At night he played jazz in the Paris clubs. In 1955, Schifrin represented his country at the International Jazz Festival in Paris.      After returning home to Argentina, Schifrin formed a jazz orchestra, a 16-piece band that became part of a popular weekly variety show on Buenos Aires TV. Schifrin also began accepting other film, television and radio assignments. In 1956, Schifrin met Dizzy Gillespie and offered to write an extended work for Gillespie’s big band. Schifrin completed the work, Gillespiana, in 1958. Later that year Schifrin began working as an arranger for Xavier Cugat’s popular dance orchestra.      While in New York in 1960, Schifrin again met Gillespie, who had by this time disbanded his big band for financial reasons. Gillespie invited Schifrin to fill the vacant piano chair in his quintet. Schifrin immediately accepted and moved to New York City. In 1963, MGM, which had Schifrin under contract, offered the composer his first Hollywood film assignment with the African adventure, Rhino!. Schifrin moved to Hollywood late that year.      To date, he has written more than 100 scores for films, television and video games. Among the classic scores are Mission Impossible, Mannix, The Fox, Cool Hand Luke, Bullitt, Enter the Dragon, THX1138, Dirty Harry, The Cincinnati Kid, The Man from U.N.C.L.E. (Schifrin wrote music for the television series although the main theme was composed by Jerry Goldsmith) and The Amityville Horror. Recent film scores include Tango, Rush Hour, Rush Hour 2, Bringing Down The House, The Bridge of San Luis Rey, After the Sunset, and Abominable. He also wrote the songs for Splinter Cell.      In 1970, he composed the Paramount Television logo jingle “Color I.D.” It was an 8-note jingle featuring horns, woodwinds and timpani. This music would have a long run in Paramount’s TV production logos through 1987