Filippo Neviani was born in Sassuolo (Modena) on January.6, 1972. He began playing drums and guitar at nine years of age. In the second half of the 1980s he began searching for a well-defined expressive identity: he started playing in small clubs with his band “Winchester”, and subsequently enjoyed budding notoriety in the Bologna province with soft-rock band “White Lady”. In 1991 he came second at the Castrocaro Song Festival, which at the time represented a major promotional opportunity for emerging artists.      His stage name Nek dates back to 1992, when his first album was released with that same title: “Nek”. Despite being a newcomer to the music business, Filippo immediately displays considerable artistic talent and great sensitivity in choosing the subject matter of his songs: in 1993 he came third in the New Talents Section of the Sanremo Festival, with the song “In te”, that dealt with the controversial issue of abortion (inspired by a musician friend’s true experience), and first revealed the unending love for life which still characterises his work. “In te” was also the title of Nek’s second album, which included a version of his song “Figli di chi”, also entered in the ’93 Sanremo Festival and performed by Mietta.      In the summer of 1994 he released “Calore Umano”, his third album, and came second at the Festival Italiano, hosted by Mike Bongiorno, with the song “Angeli nel ghetto”. Also in 1994 he received his first major acknowledgement, together with Giorgia: the European Award as best young Italian pop artist. Nek subsequently made important progress along the path of maturing as an artist: over the following years, spent recording demos, his vocal talent came into its own and impressed an indelible mark on his new songs, which began to feature a markedly international sound and straightforward lyrics about everyday life, inspired by personal experiences or stories by which Filippo was in some way touched.      After having signed a recording contract with WEA, which has remained his label to date (now Warner Music), in 1997 he took part in the Sanremo Festival, in the “Star” category, with a song that was destined to become a massive hit: “Laura non c’è” sparked enthusiasm right from the first performance, and although it failed to win the Festival, it became that year’s edition’s greatest hit. The huge success of “Laura non c’è” boosted sales of the album “Lei, gli amici e tutto il resto”, which went 6 times platinum, selling over 600,000 copies in Italy alone. That same year Nek also took part in the Festivalbar with the song “Sei grande”, and debuted on the European market, garnering positive reviews in Spain, Portugal, France, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Belgium and Finland. The public’s reaction was also sensational, and “Lei, gli amici e tutto il resto” went on to sell two million copies worldwide