**Dusty Springfield** (born Mary Isabel Catherine Bernadette O’Brien on 16 April 1939 – died 2 March 1999) was a British [pop](http://www.last.fm/tag/pop) [singer](http://www.last.fm/tag/singer). Of the female artists of the [british invasion](http://www.last.fm/tag/british%20invasion), Springfield made the biggest impression on the U.S. market. From 1963 to 1970, she scored 18 singles in the Billboard Hot 100. She was voted the Top British Female Artist by readers of New Musical Express in 1964, 1965, and 1968. Springfield is an inductee of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the UK Music Hall of Fame. She was named among the 25 female [rock](http://www.last.fm/tag/rock) artists of all time by readers of Mojo magazine (1999), editors of Q magazine (2002), and a panel of artists on the TV channel VH1 (2007).      Dusty was born in West Hampstead, England to an Irish family and was raised in the West London borough of Ealing. The name “Dusty” was given to her when she was a child, as she had been a tomboy in her early years. Dusty was brought up listening to a wide range of music, including George Gershwin, Rogers and Hart, Rogers and Hammerstein, Cole Porter, Count Basie, Duke Ellington and Glenn Miller. She was a fan of American Jazz and the music of Peggy Lee, with a desire to sound like her. Her tax consultant father used to tap out rhythms on the back of her hand, encouraging young Dusty to guess the musical piece. At age 11, Dusty went into a local record shop in Ealing and made her first record, the Irving Berlin song “When The Midnight Choo Choo Leaves For Alabam”.      After finishing school in 1958, Dusty responded to the advertisement to join an “established sister act” Lana Sisters. With the vocal group, she developed the art of harmonising, learned microphone technique, recorded, did some television and played live in the U.K. and at American Air Bases.      In 1960 she left the band and formed a pop-folk trio with her brother Dion O’Brien and Reshad Feild (who was later replaced by Mike Hurst). The new trio changed their names to Dusty, Tom, and Tim Springfield and chose The Springfields as their name during a rehearsal in a field in Somerset in spring. Intending to make an authentic American album, the Springfields travelled to Nashville to record the album Folk Songs from the Hills. The American pop tunes she heard during her stay helped to turn Springfield’s career from the folk and country sounds of the Springfields towards pop music rooted in rhythm and blues. In the spring of 1963, the Springfields recorded their last U.K. Top 5 hit, “Say I Won’t Be There”, before disbanding. They played their last concert in October 1963.      Dusty Springfield’s first single, the soul-tinged “I Only Want to Be with You”, was released in November 1963. The song, Springfield’s first flirtation with American soul, was arranged by Ivor Raymonde and paid homage to Phil Spector’s “Wall of Sound” production style