Corinne Bailey Rae (born Corinne Bailey on 26 February 1979) is a Grammy- winning English singer and songwriter who released her eponymous debut album “[Corinne Bailey Rae](http://www.last.fm/music/Corinne+Bailey+Rae/Corinne+Bailey+Rae)” in February 2006. Rae was named the number-one predicted breakthrough act of 2006 in an annual BBC poll of music critics.      Rae was born in Leeds, West Yorkshire to a Kittitian father and an English mother, and she was the eldest of three daughters. She began her musical career at school where she studied classical violin before she turned her attention to singing: “I started off singing in church, I suppose, but people think it must have been a gospel church because of the whole, you know, black assumption”, she says in reference to her multiracial background. “But it wasn’t gospel at all, it was just your regular Brethren church, very middle- class, where we would sing these harmonies every Sunday. It was always my favourite part of the service, the singing”.      Rae later transferred to a Baptist church, where the choir would sing traditional hymns, and Primal Scream tunes. “We changed the words though”, Rae states on her website. “We didn’t want to offend the regular churchgoers, now did we?”      Performing in church broadened Rae’s musical horizons, and her love affair with making music was solidified after a local youth leader offered to buy her an electric guitar. In her mid-teens, she became obsessed with rock legends Led Zeppelin, “I loved that band during my teens; I wanted, somehow, to follow in their footsteps, and to create music of my own”.      Rae formed an all-female indie group called Helen, which was inspired by similar acts such as Veruca Salt and L7. “It was the first time I’d seen women with guitars. They were kinda sexy – but feminist. I wanted to be like that, at the front of something”.      The group raised eyebrows on several fronts; in the white male-dominated world of indie music, they were an all-female group fronted by a mixed-race singer from Leeds. The moniker “Helen” also drew attention, albeit for not all the right reasons: “What can I say? We were 15 years old, and thought that Helen was a cheeky, indie kind of thing to do. It seemed clever at the time. Admittedly, it seems less so now”.      The group played many gigs around Leeds, including a memorable performance at Joseph’s Well with Leeds-based band Swift, fronted by wildman rocker Royce Dunston. Despite this, the group became the first indie act to be signed to heavy metal record label Roadrunner Records, home to acts such as Slipknot, in 1995. The venture proved to be short-lived however after the bassist became pregnant and the group disbanded. “[Was I] Disappointed? I was gutted! I had no idea what to do next”.      Corinne has often stated that she is a proud Leeds United Football Club fan