Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll (born February 2, 1977), known simply as [Shakira](http://www.shakira.com), is a Grammy-award winning Colombian singer- songwriter, musician, composer, record producer, music-video director, dancer, choreographer, instrumentalist and philanthropist who has sold over eighty million albums worldwide. She has won two Grammy awards, ten Latin Grammy awards, seven Billboard Music Awards, twenty-seven Latin Billboard Awards and has been nominated for a Golden Globe. She has been in the music industry since 1990, releasing her first album the following year. A child prodigy, she began writing poems and songs at age four and taught herself the guitar at age ten. The death of a half sibling and her father’s reaction to it inspired her to write her first full song at age eight.      Little known outside her native Colombia, it wasn’t until 1995 when Shakira took full creative control over her music, a fusion of rock and dance pop with both deeply personal and biting political lyrics. The approach yielded two multiplatinum albums. In 2001, she broke through into the English-speaking market with the release of her first album in that language, Laundry Service, which she wrote and produced herself and which has sold 3 million copies in the United States and 13 million copies worldwide. The album’s massive sales came in large part thanks to the worldwide hit, “Whenever, Wherever” a dance song with unique Andean instrumentation which soon became one of the highest selling singles of the 21st century.      Shakira is half Lebanese, one quarter Spanish, and one quarter Italian. She was born to a Colombian mother of Catalan and Italian descent, Nidia del Carmen Ripoll Torrado, and a Lebanese father, William Mebarak Chadid, in Barranquilla, Colombia, where she says she grew up among the Lebanese and Italian communities. Her father was born in Lebanon, and immediately after that, his family migrated to New York, but he soon migrated to Colombia. Shakira, which means “grateful” in Arabic (شاكرة), is named after her paternal grandmother. She was one of seven siblings, one of whom is her road manager. Shakira attended a Catholic school and in second grade was rejected for the school choir because her vibrato was too strong.[2] She began writing and composing music at the age of eight and later choreographed dance routines. At school, she says she had been known as “the belly dancer girl”, as she would demonstrate a number she learned every Friday at school. “That’s how I discovered my passion for live performance,” she says.[3] One of the first songs she wrote was called “Tus Gafas Oscuras” (Your Dark Glasses), which was about her father’s grief over a son who had died in a car accident.      Between the ages of ten and thirteen Shakira was invited to various events in Barranquilla and gained some recognition in the area