There are several people by the name Robert Johnson:      (1) Robert Johnson (Robert Leroy Johnson, Hazlehurst, Mississippi, May 8, 1911 - Greenwood, Mississippi, August 16, 1938) was an American blues singer, guitarist and songwriter, among the most famous of Delta blues musicians.      His landmark recordings from 1936–1937 display a remarkable combination of singing, guitar skills, and songwriting talent that have influenced generations of musicians. Johnson’s shadowy, poorly documented life and death at age 27 have given rise to much legend.      The first songs to appear were “Terraplane Blues” and “Last Fair Deal Gone Down,” “Terraplane Blues” became a moderate regional hit, selling 5,000 copies.   Other songs Johnson recorded were “Come On In My Kitchen,” “Kind Hearted Woman Blues,” “I Believe I’ll Dust My Broom,” and “Cross Road Blues.” “Come on in My Kitchen” included the lines: “The woman I love took from my best friend/Some joker got lucky, stole her back again/You better come on in my kitchen, it’s going to be rainin’ outdoors.” In “Crossroad Blues,” another of his songs, he sang: “I went to the crossroads, fell down on my knees/I went to the crossroads, fell down on my knees/I asked the Lord above, have mercy, save poor Bob if you please/Uumb, standing at the crossroads I tried to flag a ride/Standing at the crossroads I tried to flag a ride/Ain’t nobody seem to know me, everybody pass me by.”   “Stones In My Passway” and “Me And The Devil” are both about betrayal, a recurrent theme in country blues. “Hell Hound On My Trail” utilises another common theme: fear of the Devil. Other themes in Johnson’s music include impotence (“Dead Shrimp Blues” and “Phonograph Blues”) and infidelity (“Terraplane Blues,” “If I Had Possession Over Judgement Day” and “Love in Vain”).      The most widely known legend surrounding Robert Johnson says that he sold his soul to the Devil at the crossroads of U.S. Highway 61 and U.S. Highway 49 in Clarksdale, Mississippi in exchange for prowess in playing the guitar. Actually, the location Johnson made reference to is a short distance away from that intersection. The legend was told mainly by Son House, but finds no corroboration in any of Johnson’s work, despite titles like “Me and the Devil Blues” and “Hellhound on My Trail”. With this said, the song “Cross Road Blues” is both widely and loosely interpreted by many as a descriptive encounter of Johnson selling his soul.      The older [Tommy Johnson](http://www.last.fm/music/Tommy+Johnson) (no relation, although it is speculated that they were cousins), by contrast, also claimed to have sold his soul to the Devil. The story goes that if one would go to the crossroads a little before midnight and begin to play the guitar, a large black man would come up to the aspiring guitarist, retune his guitar and then hand it back