Victoria Caroline Beckham (née Adams; born 17 April 1974 in Harlow, Essex and raised in Goffs Oak, Hertfordshire, England, United Kingdom.) is an English singer, songwriter, dancer, fashion designer, author, businesswoman, actress and model.      HERMES During her rise to fame with 1990’s pop group the [Spice Girls](http://www.last.fm/music/Spice+Girls), Beckham was dubbed Posh Spice, a nickname first coined by the British pop music magazine, Top of the Pops, in their July, 1996, issue. Since the Spice Girls followed separate careers, she has dabbled in pop music, scoring four UK Top 10 singles as a solo artist. Her first single to be released, “Out of Your Mind”, reached number two in the UK Singles Chart and is her highest chart entry to date. During her solo music career she has been signed to Virgin Records and Telstar Records.      Beckham has found more success as an internationally recognized and photographed style icon. She has had a career in fashion, designing a line of jeans for Rock & Republic and later designing her own denim brand, dVb Style. Beckham has brought out her own range of sunglasses and fragrance, entitled Intimately Beckham, which has been released in the UK and in the United States. In association with the Japanese store Samantha Thavasa, she has produced a range of handbags and jewellery. In addition, she has released two bestselling books; one her autobiography, the other a fashion guide.      In her television ventures, Beckham has had five official documentaries and reality shows made about her, some of which include Being Victoria Beckham and The Real Beckhams. Her last documentary to date was Victoria Beckham: Coming to America which documented her move to the United States with her family in 2007. She since made a cameo appearance in an episode of American TV series Ugly Betty, and been a guest judge on Project Runway, Germany’s Next Topmodel, and American Idol (Season 9).      Victoria is married to English footballer David Beckham with whom she has three sons. As of 2009, the couple’s joint wealth is estimated at £125 million.      On 14 August 2000, Victoria released her first solo single, “Out of Your Mind” in collaboration with Dane Bowers and Truesteppers. The week of release coincided with the release of “Groovejet (If This Ain’t Love)” by Spiller ft. Sophie Ellis-Bextor, resulting in a chart battle dubbed ‘Posh vs. Posher’ by the tabloids. Following a huge publicity campaign, “Out Of Your Mind” was outsold by Ellis-Bextor, and debuted at number two in the UK Singles Chart. Before the single’s release, on 8 July 2000 she made her public solo debut at London’s Hyde Park at a concert to raise money for the Prince’s Trust charity. She sang “Out of Your Mind” to a 100,000-strong audience.      Beckham then signed recording contract with her group label Virgin Records. Her next single as a solo artist, “Not Such An Innocent Girl”, was released on 17 September 2001