Eddie Kendricks (Edward James Kendrick, Union Springs, Alabama, December 17, 1939 – Birmingham, Alabama, October 5, 1992), was an American singer and songwriter, noted for his distinctive falsetto singing style. Kendricks co- founded the Motown singing group [The Temptations](http://www.last.fm/music/The+Temptations), and was one of their lead singers from 1960 until 1971. His was the lead voice on such famous songs as “The Way You Do The Things You Do”, “Get Ready”, and “Just My Imagination”. As a solo artist, Kendricks recorded several hits of his own during the 1970s, including the number-one single “Keep On Truckin’”.      Kendricks’ solo career began slowly; he endured two years of singles that missed the Top 40, while The Temptations continued with their string of Norman Whitfield-helmed hits (one of which, “Superstar (Remember How You Got Where You Are)”, was written as a jab towards Kendricks and Ruffin). Despite enjoying only a modicum of commercial success and radio airplay, Kendricks’s 1972 album People… Hold On (with the aid of his touring group, The Young Senators: Jimi Dougans, Frank Hooker, LeRoy Fleming, Wornell Jones, David Lecraft, James Drumer Johnson and John Engram) was a cornerstone of DJ playlists in downtown New York’s nascent disco scene. The expansive, eight minute take on “Girl, You Need A Change Of Mind”, which peaked at number thirteen on the soul chart, from the album was a particular favorite at David Mancuso’s Loft. The single was later remade by R&B singer D’Angelo for the Get on the Bus Soundtrack. As the dance craze seeped through into other cities, Kendricks scored a #1 pop hit in 1973 with the Frank Wilson-produced “Keep on Truckin’”. It sold over one million copies, and was awarded a gold disc. Future hits included “Boogie Down” (US #2) (1974) and another million selling release,[3] “Son of Sagittarius” (US #28) (1974), “Shoeshine Boy” (US #18) (1975), and “He’s a Friend” (US #36) (1976). Another notable song is “Intimate Friends” (1977), which is sampled for the Alicia Keys song “Unbreakable”, “A Penny for My Thoughts” by Common, Sparkle’s “Time to Move on” on her self- titled first studio album and Sweet Sable’s “Old Time’s Sake” from the soundtrack for the 1994 2pac film, Above the Rim. Erykah Badu also sampled “Intimate Friends” for her song “Fall in Love (Your Funeral)”, as well as his song “My People… Hold on” for her song “My People” on her album New Amerykah Part One (4th World War).   Exasperated by a lack of creative and financial control, Kendricks left Motown in 1978, with the requirement of signing away the rights to his royalties. He moved first to Arista Records, and later to Atlantic Records. By this time, his popularity had waned, and he was also gradually losing his voice as a result of chain smoking.   He and David Ruffin briefly re-joined the Temptations for a 1982 reunion tour