Anastacia (born Anastacia Lyn Newkirk; September 17, 1968) in Chicago, Illinois, to a showbiz family and is an American [singer songwriter](http://www.last.fm/tag/singer%20songwriter). Anastacia has been highly successful in Europe, Asia, South Africa and South America, but has not had as much success in her native United States. Her debut album, [Not That Kind](http://www.last.fm/music/Anastacia/Not+That+Kind), released in 2000, achieved multi-platinum sales in Australia, New Zealand and much of Europe.      In 2005, she was recognized for worldwide sales of over 20 million albums/records. Anastacia is world-renowned for her powerful soul voice, and her small stature has also led to her being nicknamed “The Little Lady with The Big Voice” and has been compared to Tina Turner and Aretha Franklin. She was also known for her trademark glasses (often darkly tinted), but she had surgery to correct her vision permanently in August 2005. She also made headlines when she was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2003.      Her debut album Not That Kind was released in 2000. The album was a huge success, reaching the top ten in eight countries in Europe, Asia, and Oceania. It went quadruple platinum in Australia spurred by the success of her debut smash “I’m Outta Love” which was the most popular single of the year in that country for 2000. “I’m Outta Love” topped the charts in Australia, peaked at #2 in France and also reached number 6 in both the UK and Germany. In The US, it was only a minor radio hit. The second single “Not That Kind” reached number 11 in the UK and was a big hit all over Europe and the rest of the world. “Cowboys & Kisses” was released as the third single off the album, charting in the top 40 in some European countries. As the last single, “Made for Lovin’ You” charted in the UK (27) and France (72).      While “I’m Outta Love” was a Top 10 song on the Hot Dance Club Play, “Not That Kind” did not chart high on the Billboard Hot 100.      Her second album, Freak of Nature achieved respectable sales although it did not match the level of international success of Not That Kind. The album title derives from a nickname her mother called her.[citation needed] The first single released was “Paid My Dues”. The second single, “One Day in Your Life”, reached number 11 in the UK and the top 10 in many European countries. The next single “Why’d You Lie to Me” reached the top 30 in the UK. “You’ll Never Be Alone”, the 4th single, reached #28 on the Adult Contemporary chart in the U.S. When the album was finally released in the United States in May 2002, she dedicated the album to Lisa “Left Eye” Lopes,[citation needed] who had died in a car wreck the month before. Lisa “Left Eye” Lopes was partly responsible for Anastacia’s success, since Lisa hosted MTV’s The Cut where Anastacia got her first break