Phil Keaggy (born March 23, 1951) is a Christian guitarist, songwriter, and singer. Raised in a small farmhouse in Hubbard, Ohio with nine brothers and sisters, Keaggy began playing guitar at age ten on a Sears Silvertone guitar, despite missing half of the middle finger on his right hand due to an accident at age 4 involving a water pump.      He is frequently listed as one of the top fingerstyle guitarists by Guitar Player Magazine readers’ polls, but he is equally at home on electric guitar. Keaggy is noted for crowd-pleasing solo live performances where he makes extensive use of recording live layers of loops to accompany himself. To do this he uses only an acoustic guitar but is able to create electric sounds.      Keaggy began performing professionally in the late 60s with drummer John Sferra. The two friends, with the addition of bassist Dan Pecchio, formed [Glass Harp](http://www.last.fm/music/Glass+Harp) in 1968.      A major turning point for the trio was winning an Ohio area’s “Battle of the Bands.” One of event’s judges happened to be an associate of the celebrated producer Lewis Merenstein, who was alerted about the hot young threesome. At the time, Merenstein was fresh from producing albums for many successful artists including The Spencer Davis Group, Turley Richards and Van Morrison’s Moondance (Merenstein produced Astral Weeks as well) and had just been voted Producer of the Year by Rolling Stone. Merenstein was persuaded to fly down from New York to see what the fuss was all about.      Upon hearing the band perform, Merenstein was so inspired that Decca Records signed Glass Harp to a multi-record deal. A short time later, the band found itself in New York’s Greenwich Village recording its first album at Jimi Hendrix’ Electric Ladyland Studio with Lewis Merenstein as producer.      As a Decca Records artist, the band began to open for such artists as Iron Butterfly, Yes, Traffic, and Chicago.[1] At one point, future James Gang guitarist Joe Walsh was being considered to join New Hudson Exit (the band Phil Keaggy was in prior to the formation of Glass Harp) but the other members of the band felt Walsh’s style was too dynamic.      Years later, Amboy Dukes guitar player Ted Nugent was quoted as saying “I don’t know what happened to that Phil Keaggy, he could have saved the world with his guitar” in Guitar Player Magazine.      On Valentine’s Day in 1970, Keaggy’s mother was involved in a fatal car accident. He was heavily involved in drugs at the time, and that same day was badly hurt by an LSD trip. In the midst of this tragedy his sister Ellen took the time to tell him about finding peace in Jesus, and he converted to Christianity.      Keaggy left Glass Harp in 1972 and released his first solo album the following year entitled [What A Day](http://www.last.fm/music/Phil+Keaggy/What+A+Day). Keaggy married his wife Bernadette the following summer