Bunny Wailer, also known as Bunny Livingston (born April 10, 1947), was an original member of reggae group The Wailers along with Bob Marley and Peter Tosh.      Bunny Wailer, a singer songwriter and percussionist, was born Neville O’Riley Livingston on April 10, 1947 in Kingston, Jamaica. Bunny Wailer and Peter Tosh continued recording as the Wailers during the period of time that Marley was in Delaware.      Bunny Wailer toured with the Wailers in England and the United States, but soon became reluctant to leave Jamaica. He and Tosh became more marginalized in the group as the Wailers became an international success, and attention was increasingly focused on Marley. Bunny Wailer and Peter Tosh subsequently left the Wailers to pursue solo careers. They were replaced by the I Threes, a move to broaden the base of success for the Wailers in the non-Jamaican market.      After leaving the Wailers, Bunny became more focused on his spiritual faith. He identified with the Rastafari movement, as did the other Wailers. He self- produced a number of his recordings after striking out on his own. He has also written much of his own material as well as re-recording a number of cuts from the Wailers catalogue. Bunny Wailer has recorded primarily in the roots style, in keeping with his often political and spiritual messages. The album “Blackheart Man” is a good example of his roots reggae style and the dub version,Dub d*sco vol 1 equally magnificent if hard to find. “Sings the Wailers” successfully reworks many of The Wailers songs with the backing of top Jamaican musicians, Sly and Robbie. He has also had success recording in the typically apolitical, more pop dancehall style. He has outlived his contemporaries in a culture where death by violence is commonplace.      Bunny Wailer has won the Grammy Award for Best Reggae Album in 1990, 1994 and 1996.      Today, Bunny resides in Kingston and on a farm located in the interior of Jamaica, according to Bob Marley’s official website.  