Sukhwinder Singh is an Indian singer, composer, and lyricist, but is most popular for being a playback singer in the Indian film industry. He his voice has reached high demand from composers as it has helped launch numerous film soundtracks into “Super Hit” status in India as well as abroad. Many of his most popular hits have been under such popular and critically acclaimed composers as A.R. Rahman and Sandeep Chowta. His most known work is the song “Chaiyya Chaiyya” for Mani Ratnam’s 1998 film Dil Se, composed by A. R. Rahman, which gained him the award for Best Male Playback at the 1999 Filmfare Awards in India. A remix of this song was also used in Spike Lee’s film “Inside Man”. Besides his playback work he has also released 2 albums where he composes as well as sings, “Nasha Hi Nasha” and “Is Dil Se”. Another major hit to his kitty is the Oscar-winning track “Jai Ho” from the Oscar-winning movie Slumdog Millionaire.      Sukhwinder Singh      Sukhwinder Singh is an Indian singer, most famous as a Bollywood playback singer. His greatest success is arguably the song Chaiyya Chaiyya for Mani Ratnam’s 1998 film Dil Se, composed by A. R. Rahman, for which he won the ‘Best Male Playback’ award at the 1999 Filmfare Awards in India (the same song was used in Spike Lee’s film Inside Man). His popularity increased after he sung Chak De India-an Indian patriotic song in the Hindi film “Chak De India”. Recently he also performed in the Indian Idol Grand Finale.      Sukhwinder Singh is a leading Bollywood singer. He first performed on stage at the age of 7 or 8, singing the Lata number “Sa re ga ma pa, pa, pa, ga ma re, ga re mere sang mere saajna.” He also released a Punjabi album called Munda Southhall Da with T. Singh joined Laxmikant-Pyarelal’s troupe and quickly became a music arranger, before heading to the south of India to look for work. At this time he did a film called Rakshagan.      Singh got his break in a Madhuri Dixit film called Khilaaf, in which he sang the hit song ‘Aa ja sanam’. But the singer himself realised that something was missing in his voice. He left his dream city to tour England and America to see, hear and understand the various forms of music. After this broadening of his musical horizons, he returned to Mumbai to kick-start his musical career.      His first effort in Hindi films, Aaja Sanam, went largely unremarked, even though the music carried the names of Laxmikant-Pyarelal. Then, along came Dil Se. A. R. Rahman, always interested in something new, used Sukhwinder for the unforgettable “Chaiyya Chaiyya”. Sukhwinder is now highly regarded as a sensitive and eloquent singer. The other films that followed - including Taal, Biwi No. 1, 1947 Earth, Daag, Dillagi, Moksha, and Thakshak,”tere naam”,”apna sapna money money”, “shadi se pehle” ,”shabd” ,”musafir”, “chak de india”, “black & white”- have made him a household name