Townes Van Zandt (John Townes Van Zandt, born at Fort Worth, Texas, March 7, 1944 and died at Smyrna, Tennessee, January 1, 1997). He was a [country](http://www.last.fm/tag/country) and [folk](http://www.last.fm/tag/folk) singer and poet.      While alive, Van Zandt was labelled as a cult musician. Though he had a small and devoted fanbase, he never had a successful album or single, and even had difficulty keeping his recordings in print. Many of his songs, including “If I Needed You,” “To Live Is To Fly,” and “No Place to Fall” are considered standards of their genre. AllMusic has called him “one of the greatest country and folk artists of his generation.”      In 1983, [Willie Nelson](http://www.last.fm/music/Willie+Nelson) and [Merle Haggard](http://www.last.fm/music/Merle+Haggard) covered his song “Pancho and Lefty”, scoring a number one hit on the Billboard country music charts. Despite achievements like these, the bulk of Van Zandt’s life was spent performing in dive bars, often living in cheap motel rooms, backwoods cabins and on friends’ couches. Van Zandt was notorious for his drug addictions, alcoholism and his tendency to tell tall tales.      Van Zandt died on New Year’s Day, 1997 from health problems stemming from years of substance abuse.      The 2000s saw a resurgence of interest in Van Zandt. During the decade, two books, a documentary film and a number of magazine articles about the singer were created. Van Zandt’s music has been covered by such notable and varied musicians as Bob Dylan, Norah Jones, and The Meat Puppets.      Early life   Townes Van Zandt was born in Fort Worth, Texas to an oil-wealthy family. He was the third-great-grandson of Isaac Van Zandt, a prominent leader of the Republic of Texas and one of the founders of Fort Worth. Van Zandt County in east Texas was named after his family in 1848. Townes’ parents were Harris Williams Van Zandt (1913 - 1966) and Dorothy Townes (? - 1983). He had two siblings, Bill and Donna. Harris was a corporate lawyer, and his career required the family to move several times during the 1950s and 1960s. In 1952, the family transplanted from Fort Worth to Midland, Texas for six months before moving to Billings, Montana.      Townes was given a guitar by his father for Christmas in 1956, which he practiced while wandering the countryside. He would later tell an interviewer that watching Elvis Presley’s October 28, 1956 performance “on The Ed Sullivan Show was the starting point for me becoming a guitar player… I just thought that Elvis had all the money in the world, all the Cadillacs and all the girls, and all he did was play the guitar and sing. That made a big impression on me.” In 1958, the family moved to Boulder, Colorado. Van Zandt would remember his time in Colorado fondly and would often visit it as an adult. He would also later reference Colorado in the songs “My Proud Mountains” and “Colorado Girl”