Shirley Collins MBE (born Shirley Elizabeth Collins on 5 July 1935 in Hastings, Sussex) is an award-winning British folksinger who was a significant contributor to the English Folk Revival of the 1960s and 1970s. She often performed and recorded with her sister [Dolly Collins](http://www.last.fm/music/Dolly+Collins), whose accompaniment on piano and portative organ created unique settings for her sister’s plain, austere singing style. Collins’s seminal recording is considered by many to be ‘Anthems in Eden’, released in 1969. With her second husband [Ashley Hutchings](http://www.last.fm/music/Ashley+Hutchings) she created the all- acoustic [Etchingham Steam Band](http://www.last.fm/music/Etchingham+Steam+Band). She was awarded an MBE for services to music in 2006.      Collins and her sister, Dolly, grew up in the Hastings area of East Sussex in a family which kept alive a great love of traditional song. Songs learnt from their grandfather and from their mother’s sister, Grace Winborn, were to be important in the sisters’ repertoire throughout their career.      On leaving school, at the age of 17, Shirley Collins enrolled at a teachers’ training college in Tooting, south London. However, in London she also involved herself in the early folk revival and in 1954, at a party hosted by Ewan McColl, she met Alan Lomax, the famous American folk collector, who had moved to Britain to avoid the McCarthy witch-hunt which was then raging in America. Lomax and Collins began a romantic relationship which led to their undertaking a folk song collecting trip in the Southern states which lasted from July to November 1959 and resulted in many hours of recordings, featuring performers such as Almeda Riddle, Hobart Smith, and Bessie Jones and culminated in the discovery of Mississippi Fred McDowell. Recordings from this trip were issued by Atlantic Records under the title “Sounds of the South” and also featured in the Coen brothers’ film Oh Brother, Where Art Thou. The experience of her life with Lomax and the making of the recordings in religious communities, social gatherings, prisons and chain gangs was described in Collins’s book America Over the Water (published 2004).      Back in Britain, Shirley Collins proceeded with her own singing career, and in a series of influential albums, she helped to introduce many innovations into the English folk revival. In 1964, she recorded the landmark jazz-folk fusion of Folk Roots, New Routes, with guitarist Davy Graham. 1967 saw the essentially southern English song collection, The Sweet Primeroses, on which she was accompanied for the first time by Dolly Collins’s portative organ.      In 1969 there was another collaboration, this time with The Young Tradition (featuring Peter Bellamy, Heather Wood and Royston Wood) and Dolly Collins, The Holly Bears a Crown.      Shirley Collins’s seminal recording is considered by many to be Anthems in Eden, released in 1969