Timothy Zachery Mosley (born March 10, 1972 in Norfolk, Virginia, United States) is a Grammy award winning record producer, rapper and singer whose style of production and arranging was very influential in music during the mid-1990s. With partner [Magoo](http://www.last.fm/music/Magoo), he is a member of the hip hop group [Timbaland & Magoo](http://www.last.fm/music/Timbaland+&+Magoo) and is the older brother of rapper [Sebastian](http://www.last.fm/music/Sebastian). He released his debut solo album, Tim’s Bio: Life From Da Bassment in 1998, followed by Shock Value in 2007, and its follow up, Shock Value II in 2009. He has produced hit tracks for many artists and has his own record label, Mosley Music Group.      Timbaland is similar to producers such as Norman Whitfield in that he helped to redefine the sound of an entire genre of music with an immediately recognizable production style. The songs he produces feature unusual arrangements, sounds, and instrumentation, tied together by a trademark sense of rhythm. Like Spector and Whitfield, Timbaland’s production sometimes overshadows the credited performer and becomes the actual “star” of the song. With songwriters Steve “Static” Garrett and childhood friend Missy Elliott, Timbaland has helped to create some of the most successful songs in modern pop music and urban music, including singles for Aaliyah, Ginuwine, SWV, Total, and 702.      Mosley grew up in Norfolk, Virginia, where he became acquainted with Missy Elliott and Melvin Barcliff, whose MC name was “Magoo.” Originally a disc jockey known as “DJ Timmy Tim,” Mosely began making hip-hop backing tracks on a Casio keyboard he owned. In 1993 Elliott heard his material and, taken by Mosley’s unique sense of rhythm, immediately began working with him.      Elliott and her girl group Sista auditioned for DeVante Swing, producer and member of successful R&B act Jodeci. Devante signed Sista to his Swing Mob label, and Elliott brought Mosely and Barcliff along with her. Mosely began working under Devante, who renamed the young producer Timbaland, after the Timberland boot popular in hip-hop fashion.      Sista and Timbaland & Magoo became part of Devante’s stable of Swing Mob signees known as “Da Bassment” crew, joining artists and groups such as male singer Ginuwine, male vocal group Playa, and girl group Sugah. Timbaland did production work on a number of projects with Devante, including the 1995 Jodeci LP The Show, The After-Party, The Hotel, and Sista’s debut LP, which was shevled and never saw release.      Timbaland was also friends with Pharrell Williams, and had dabbled in projects with him as S.B.I., or Surrounded By Idiots. Pharrell recalls in an interview: ““In seventh grade I met Chad. That’s twenty years ago by now. Like I said earlier, we started producing beats together. But then again, I also played with this famous group which consisted of Timbaland, Magoo, myself and some other guy