Pam Tillis (born July 24, 1957 in Plant City, Florida) is an American country music singer and actress. The daughter of singer [Mel Tillis](http://www.last.fm/music/Mel+Tillis), she grew up in Nashville, TN surrounded by music. At age eight, she sang on the Grand Ole Opry.      Rhinestoned says it all. No other word, real or invented for the occasion, sums up as well where Pam Tillis stands now.      She is, after all, a superstar as well as a survivor. A child of Music City royalty and a former rebel, she was determined to find her own way as a singer and songwriter — and she succeeded. A CMA Female Vocalist of the Year, she has written songs for some of the top singers in and beyond Nashville, including more than a few of her own hits.      She knows what it’s like to break the platinum barrier, to top the singles charts time and again, to bask in an ovation at her induction as a member of the Opry or play in the intimate hush of the Bluebird Café. She has bathed in the lights of Broadway, posed for glamour magazine spreads, sung ballads in Bay Area bistros, batted wicked one-liners back to Tom Bergeron on Hollywood Squares, even made cameos in movies.      But no matter where she wandered, Pam Tillis never lost her connection to country music — even when country began to lose touch with itself. Trends came and went, and though she rolled easily with the tides and drew something from every new twist, she was aware that changes come with a cost, even as the business side of country flourished.      Her response was to insist on writing and cutting songs that spoke from the soul, rather than the boardrooms and focus groups of the country music industry. The results have been records that emanate an almost painful beauty, as did her 2002 release, the critically acclaimed It’s All Relative (a tribute to her father, the great Mel Tillis).      “What I’m doing is country — but not necessarily the kind that you hear on the airwaves these days,” Tillis explains, one drizzly afternoon over coffee, not far from Music Row. “Now, I admire a lot of this music; after all, I’ve sung rock, pop, R&B, and jazz, so I’m hardly a purist. But what I’m hearing now sounds often more like pop than country to me. And I just seriously felt called by that old different drummer to something a little bit more like the country I remember from my formative years, the country music of my youth.” It’s also something Tillis’ fans and friends clamor for as she encounters them out on the road.      With It’s All Relative, which she affectionately calls “the Dad album,” Tillis produced one of the most memorable discs to have come out of Nashville in years, largely because of her refusal to conform to expectations. Combing through her father’s catalog, she chose songs that had an especially timeless quality, with built-in resistance to the whims of the market. It was a bold statement; more than that, it set the stage for the even more assertive statement that Rhinestoned would make