Antonello Venditti (born March 8, 1949) is an Italian singer-songwriter who became famous in 1970s for the social themes of his songs.   Antonello Venditti was born in Rome, the son of a police commissary.      He studied piano in his youth and made his debut in the music world in the early 1970s at the Folkstudio of Rome, together with singers the like of Francesco De Gregori and Giorgio Lo Cascio. In duo with the former he released in 1972 his first LP, Theorius Campus. The LP scored little success, but Venditti at least made himself being noted for the strength of his vocal qualities and for his attention for social issues, evidenced by pieces like “Sora Rosa” which is sung in Roman dialect. Also in dialect was “Roma Capoccia”, a declaration of love for his city, that later became one of his most famous songs. Curiously, Venditti refused to sing it for several years, as he considered it not politically or socially “engaged” enough.      Venditti subsequently moved to Milan and released L’orso bruno (1973), made in collaboration with musician Vince Tempera: this album included another song in dialect, “E Li Ponti So’ Soli”, but for the rest was marked by an even stronger attention to social themes. His next work, Le cose della vita (“Things of Our Life”), released the same year for the colossus RCA Music, confirmed this tendency. The following LP Quando verrà Natale (“When Christmas Will Come”) was similar; its even more naked arrangements emphasize the strength of Venditti’s denunciation. After a live performance of the song “A Cristo” (“Hey, Christ”), he was denounced by an Italian Police officer for blasphemy: Venditti, however, was later totally acquitted.      Venditti’s fortunes grew and peaked in 1975, with the LP Lilly: the yearning title-track was another strong accusation, this time against drugs, but it met an outstanding success anyway. Other famous pieces in the album were “Compagno di scuola” (“Schoolmate”) and the long ballad “Lo Stambecco Ferito” (“The Wounded Steinbeck”), the story of a corrupted Northern Italy tycoon. Venditti continued to deal with front-page facts with the following LP, Ullalà (1976), whose “Canzone per Seveso” was about the eponymous industrial accident that happened in July of that year.      Political involvement, however, had side-effects on Venditti’s inspiration in the late 1970s, marked in Italy by the growing menace of terrorism and by the strategia della tensione: some events (like the public booing of his friend De Gregori by politicized fans during a show) forced him to rethink his way of being a public personality. Sotto il segno dei Pesci (“(Born) Under the Pisces astrological sign”, 1978) contained more personal and intimate themes. The eponymous track scored a great success, but was largely misinterpreted as a song about a woman: it instead referred to Venditti’s career itself; he was effectively born “under the Pisces sign”