Cilla Black OBE (born Priscilla Maria Veronica White on 27 May, 1943) is an English [singer](http://www.last.fm/tag/singer) and television personality. After a successful recording career, she went on to become the highest paid female presenter in British television history. In 2013, Cilla Black celebrates 50 years in show business, as a prelude to this landmark anniversary EMI (the record label which launched her career in 1963) release ‘Completely Cilla: 1963-1973’ - a 5CD set containing all of her songs produced by George Martin with a bonus DVD of rare BBC TV music performances.      Cilla Black was born in Liverpool to a Protestant father and a Catholic mother. As a child she was encouraged to sing by her family. In the early 19[60s](http://www.last.fm/tag/60s), determined to break into show business, she got a part-time job as a cloakroom attendant at the famous Cavern Club in Liverpool, where The Beatles regularly played. Ideally placed to promote herself to local musicians, she impressed the Beatles and others with her talent and began her stage career with impromptu performances at the Cavern. She became a guest singer with Merseybeat bands Rory Storm and the Hurricanes, Kingsize Taylor and the Dominoes, and later The Big Three. During this period she also worked as a waitress at the Zodiac coffee lounge, where she met her future husband Bobby Willis.      Brian Epstein, a former retail manager from a prominent Jewish family on Merseyside, had a stable of artists drawn from the local music scene, headed by the Beatles. Initially, he showed little interest in Cilla, often billed as Swinging Cilla, or Cilla White. She was introduced to Epstein by John Lennon who persuaded him to audition her. Her first audition was a failure, partly because of nerves, and partly because the Beatles (who backed her) played the songs in their vocal key rather than re-pitching them for Cilla’s voice. In her autobiography What’s It All About? (Ebury Press ISBN 0-09-189036-5) she wrote:      I’d chosen to do ‘Summertime’, but at the very last moment I wished I hadn’t. I adored this song, and had sung it when I came to Birkenhead with the Big Three, but I hadn’t rehearsed it with the Beatles and it had just occurred to me that they would play it in the wrong key. It was too late for second thoughts, though. With one last wicked wink at me, John set the group off playing. I’d been right to worry. The music was not in my key and any adjustments that the boys were now trying to make were too late to save me. My voice sounded awful. Destroyed - and wanting to die - I struggled on to the end.      But after seeing her at a later date, at the Blue Angel jazz club, Epstein signed Cilla up as his only female client on 6 September 1963. The local music paper Mersey Beat misprinted her name as Cilla Black, but Epstein liked the sound of it