Amita Marie Young (born Su Min Ta Marie Young, Thai: อมิตา มารี ยัง Amita Marie Yang, December 14, 1980 in Bangkok, Thailand), better known under her stage name Tata Young, is a Thai singer, model actress and dancer.      Young is the only daughter of an American father and a Thai mother. In a childhood filled with singing and dancing, Tata had already shown early signs of a talent that would take her from being Thailand’s biggest teenage pop sensation to an international recording artist. At the tender age of 11, Tata beat 5,300 other young children to be crowned winner of the International Division of the nationwide Thailand Junior Singing Contest by belting her rendition of “One Night Only”.      The victory earned her an entertainer’s contract with Yamaha Music in preparation for her impending debut in show business. In 1994, the 14-year-old caught the eye of A&R executives from Grammy Entertainment, Thailand’s biggest entertainment conglomerate, snapping her up with a recording artist contract.      Within a short year, Tata had recorded and released her debut Thai-language album “Amita Tata Young” which shot to the top of the charts and sold more than a million copies in less than five months. Almost overnight – and at the tender age of 15 - Tata became the biggest pop sensation in Thailand.      Her reputation was solidified when sales of her follow-up album “TATA 1,000,000 Copies Celebration”, that included the hit single “Chan Rak Thur” (I Love You), hit the 1 million sales mark as well.      1995 saw the teen star collect a string of top awards and accolades, included being named Entertainer of the Year by the B Bangkok Press, as well as B est Recording Artist for 1995, an award for Music Video of the Year, awards for Number One and Two Singles of the Year, and Album of the Year for “Amita Tata Young”, at the Radio Vote Awards in Thailand.      Tata’s cosmopolitan background helped her set new standards for the Thai music industry. Despite singing in the Thai language, Tata’s popularity also allowed her toperform abroad.      She was chosen to represent Thailand for the Australian Television program “World Telly Broadcast”, which also featured Youth in Asia and was broadcast in February of 1996. The program was seen by audiences in Australia and throughout Southeast Asia.      In April 1996, Tata held her “Tata Live in Hollywood Concert” at the renowned Hollywood Palladium. It was a rare event for an Asian singer to be performing in front of an American audience. Nevertheless, the concert received outstanding reviews.      Tata was selected by the Chinese Government to represent Thailand at the Hand- over Concert for the Hong Kong Hand-over Ceremonies held on July 5th, 1997 alongside international acts such as Wet Wet Wet, Michael Learns to Rock, Lisa Stansfield, All 4 One, and the B rand New Heavies