“Songs are like trains; they take you from one place to another. This collection of songs, I think, is my train home,” says Chiara Civello, in describing her second album, The Space Between.      Sultry voice, poetic lyrics and surprising harmonies are just a part of the recipe that makes Chiara’s music so irresistible.      The distance she has traveled is both musical and spiritual-literally stretching across the Atlantic Ocean. Born in Rome, Chiara was encouraged to play the piano by her grandmother; she kids that her nonna’s out-of-tune upright afforded the best ear training. She briefly tried the acoustic guitar, but that ended almost comically with a drive to get some gelato. “The little car only had two doors,” she remembers. “When I sat down, I broke the neck of the guitar. That was it for me. No more guitar. My mother said, ‘You’d better sing, girl!’”      Chiara had already been in some classical choirs, but was looking for something freer than the operatic traditions of her homeland. A friend suggested that she learn jazz; she’d never heard of it. A little investigation brought her to a private music school that she would attend through her four years of high school: the St. Louis Music Academy in Rome. When she was sixteen, Chiara began singing professionally and won a scholarship to the prestigious Berklee College of Music in Boston. She enrolled there from 1994-98. By the first year Chiara was a regular on the Boston club scene, performing with different bands.      But her journey didn’t end with Boston or jazz. Chiara’s move to New York City was inevitable. Searching for something musically closer to her Mediterranean roots, she immersed herself in Latin and Brazilian music, learning Spanish and Portuguese along the way. She also wrote her first song, “Parole Incerte” (“Uncertain Words”), about the misunderstandings that can come from the distance between a person and her loved ones.      Meanwhile, two of Chiara’s bandmates - pianist Alain Mallet and drummer Jamey Haddad - had begun working with Paul Simon and invited her to a rehearsal. It was there that she met producer Russ Titelman and left him with a demo of “Parole Incerte.” He called the very next day and insisted, “You are a songwriter. Forget about everything else you are doing. You have to write.” Chiara began composing lyrics in English. She studied the work of Bob Dylan, Joni Mitchell, James Taylor.      Titelman let president and CEO of Verve hear the song and the next day Chiara was offered a record deal that not only allowed her to enter the studio but made her the first Italian born to be signed by Verve Records.      From this series of encouraging and exciting encounters emerged the 10 original compositions included on her debut album LAST QUARTER MOON, Verve2005; seven written by herself and three co-writes, including the brooding ballad “Trouble” that was co-written with legend Burt Bacharach