Vincenzo Jannacci (June 3, 1935 – March 29, 2013), more commonly known as Enzo Jannacci (Italian pronunciation: [vinˈtʃentso] or [ˈɛntso janˈnattʃi]), was an Italian cardiologist, singer-songwriter, actor and stand-up comedian. He is regarded as one of the most important artists in the post-war Italian music scene.      Jannacci is widely considered as a master of musical art and cabaret, and in the course of his career has collaborated with many famous Italian musicians, performing artists, journalists, television personalities and comedians. He has written around thirty albums and soundtracks, some of which have since come to be seen as milestones in the history of Italian popular music.      A cardiologist in his day job, he is also regarded as one of the founders of Italian rock and roll music, along with Adriano Celentano, Luigi Tenco and Giorgio Gaber, with whom he collaborated for over forty years.      Enzo Jannacci was born in Milan on June 3, 1935. On his father’s side his family is from Puglia: his grandfather, also called Vincenzo, moved to Milan from Bari just before the onset of the First World War. His mother’s side of the family is from Lombardy.      His father was an aeronautical official and worked at Forlanini airport (now more commonly known as Linate). He took part in the Italian resistance movement, in particular during the defense of Milanese aviation at Piazza Novelli, an act which later inspired songs such as Sei minuti all’alba (“Six Minutes to Dawn”).      After finishing high school at the Liceo Scientifico Leonardo Da Vinci, he graduated in harmony, composition and conducting at the Milan Conservatory.   Later in 1967 he graduated with a degree in medicine from the University of Milan.   He left Italy for South Africa and United States to specialise in cardiac surgery, where he joined the team of Christiaan Barnard, the famous surgeon.   On November 23, 1967 he married Giuliana Orefice, who gave birth to Paolo, their only child, five years later. Today Paolo is a musician and conductor.      Jannacci started his musical career in 1956, becoming the keyboardist of the group “Rocky Mountains”. Lead member of the group initially was Tony Dallara, that was later replaced by Giorgio Gaber. In 1957 he became the keyboardist of the Rock Boys, a rock’n’roll group accompanying Adriano Celentano.   In 1958, even keeping on perform with Rock Boys, he formed with Gaber the musical duo “I due corsari” with whom he made his first recordings. In the same years he was able to accompany as a jazz pianist several great names such as Stan Getz, Gerry Mulligan, Chet Baker, Bud Powell and Franco Cerri, with whom he recorded several albums.      Jannacci started his solo career in early sixties, recording two songs, “L’ombrello di mio fratello” and “Il cane con i capelli”, that already revealed its ironic and surreal style, and in 1962 he debuted on stage with the recital Milanon Milanin