Michael Bolton (born Michael Bolotin on February 26, 1953), is an American [singer-songwriter](http://www.last.fm/tag/singer-songwriter), best known for his [soft rock](http://www.last.fm/tag/soft%20rock) ballads and powerful vocals, characterized by his wide vocal range and deep, husky vocal tone. He was born in New Haven, Connecticut.      His achievements include selling 53 million albums, eight top ten albums, two number one singles on the Billboard charts, and awards from both the American Music Awards and Grammy Awards.      Michael Bolton had an extensive, though not very successful, career under his real name, Michael Bolotin, before emerging in the mid-‘[80s](http://www.last.fm/tag/80s) as a major soft rock balladeer. Bolton began recording in 1975. This first album was self-titled using his original surname, Bolotin. Early in his musical career, he focused on hard rock. His band, Blackjack, once toured with heavy metal singer Ozzy Osbourne. He turned up on RCA Records in the mid-‘[70s](http://www.last.fm/tag/70s) singing in a gruff, Joe Cocker-like voice both his own blue-eyed soul songs and cover tunes. Neither record buyers nor critics were much interested by the result. He then became the lead singer in Blackjack, a heavy metal band that made two albums for Polydor at the end of the ’70s and the start of the ’80s. In 1983, he changed his name to Michael Bolton, signed to Columbia Records as a solo act, and relaunched his career.      Michael Bolton was released in April 1983, and made the Top 100 bestsellers, as did its single, “Fools Game.” At the same time, “How Am I Supposed to Live Without You,” which Bolton had co-written, became a Top 40 hit for Laura Branigan. Nevertheless, Bolton’s second Columbia album, Everybody’s Crazy (1985), was a commercial flop. His breakthrough came with his third album, The Hunger, released in September 1987. On this album, Bolton abandoned the more hard rock aspects of his style to concentrate on blue-eyed soul singing: both on his own songs, such as “That’s What Love Is All About,” and on covers like Otis Redding’s “(Sittin’ On) The Dock of the Bay.” Those two songs became Top 40 hits.      Soul Provider, released in July 1989, turned Bolton into a superstar, reaching the Top Ten, selling four million copies, and spawning five Top 40 singles, including Bolton’s number one version of “How Am I Supposed to Live Without You,” and the Top Ten hits “How Can We Be Lovers” and “When I’m Back on My Feet Again.” “How Am I Supposed to Live Without You” won Bolton a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance