Mokoma is a [thrash metal](http://www.last.fm/tag/thrash%20metal) band formed in Lappeenranta, Finland in 1996. Their music also has grindcore and death metal influences with traditional Finnish melancholy.      Mokoma started out as a creation of Marko Annala, who is the bands lead singer, and has been the band’s only original bandmember. Through the years several members have come and gone, but only Marko has remained constant. The band started out as a more traditional rock band with their first two albums “Valu” and “Mokoman 120 päivää”. However, both albums sold badly and they were eventually dropped when they suggested to their record company (EMI), that they wanted to play something more closer to their hearts, thrash metal. The group moved on and created their own record company, called Sakara Records, and released their third album “Kurimus”, which is sometimes regarded as the first thrash metal album sung in Finnish. That was the first release of the members’ independent record company Sakara Records. Since then they have released four more albums and an EP called “Viides vuodenaika”, which reached position one in the Finnish albums chart. Their latest album release is “180 astetta”.      Mokoma’s story is one of the most inspiring in the history of Finnish Metal and music business. Past years of the band has celebrated their unbelievable rise from being the underdogs dropped by a major company to being the top dogs with their own label.      In the late 90’s Finland’s metal scene started booming with bands singing in Finnish. Previously English had been the one and only metal language. Then some bands combined metal guitars with Finnish lyrics. Successful acts were followed by copycats, and the main recipe was to churn out sluggish mid-tempo riffs accompanied by lyrics dwelling in ten different types of misery.      During those days Mokoma was signed to EMI, and [Kuisma Aalto](http://www.last.fm/music/Kuisma+Aalto) joined as a guitarist and Roope Laasonen in keyboards. The band released two albums “Valu” (1999) and “Mokoman 120 päivää” (2001). Before these albums the keyboard player Roope Laaksonen quit Mokoma, and [Tuomo Saikkonen](http://www.last.fm/music/Tuomo+Saikkonen) joined as a second guitarist. At that time Mokoma’s sound was closer to grunge influenced rock, with some metal elements emerging occasionally. In 1999 Janne Hynynen left the band and he was replaced by Mikko Ruokonen for one gig, and after him Raikko Törönen takes the place as the drummer for several gigs. Törönen’s health crashes down and Juhana Rantala takes his place as a deputy. After realising that Törönen wouldn’t come back to the band, Janne Hyrkäs takes the drummers place just couple of months before the recording of the second album.      Both albums sold poorly and when Mokoma introduced their idea about an album based on Thrash Metal songs sung in Finnish, EMI instantly dropped them