Kevin Coyne (born 27 January 1944 in Derby, UK; died in his adopted home of Nuremberg, Germany, on 2 December 2004) was an English musician, singer, composer, film-maker, and a writer of lyrics, stories and poems. His uncompromising attitude towards showbiz fame and fortune always left him in a position of “outsider”, a position he relished. The freedom to express himself without the chains of commercial considerations (although he would not have been adverse to a Number One album) helped keep his creativity alive.      Coyne was born in Derby on 27 January 1944 and educated at Joseph Wright School of Art (1957-1961) then Derby College of Art (1961-1965) where he studied graphics and painting, obtaining the N.D.D. in 1965. Early musical influences were Little Richard, Fats Domino, Chuck Berry and later (at art school), Muddy Waters, John Lee Hooker and Jimmy Reed.      Coyne’s first job was a social therapist at Whittingham Hospital, Lancashire (1965-1968). In late 1968 he moved to London, starting work for the Soho project as a counsellor for drug addicts in 1969. This work was a source for many of his early songs and remains a major influence today.      In 1973 a youthful and idealistic Coyne signed as a solo artist for “Virgin Records” (after a five album spell with Siren on Dandelion Records) proceeding to make eleven LPs over the next eight years. During this period he recorded with the likes of Andy Summers, Zoot Money, Carla Bley (for her album “Silence”) and Dagmar Krause. It was a productive time in his career, with tours of Australia, Europe, Canada, the U.S.A. and work in the theatre (the self-composed musicals “Babble” and “England, England”). Life was hectic. Something had to give.      A complete nervous breakdown came in 1981, the main causes being alcoholism and overwork. After leaving “Virgin Records,” he created a succession of dark, brooding albums for the label “Cherry Red.”      The year 1985 was one of big changes. Coyne left London and resettled in Nuremberg, Germany. The move was a good one, resulting in formation of a German group (The Paradise Band), a fresh recording career and a drastic change in life-style. He quit drinking for good in 1987. Ten albums had been recorded in Germany. The musical future continued to look bright and positive.      Kevin Coyne’s writing, painting career had truly blossomed in Germany. Four books had been published with one still in print. (Two, “Show Business” and “The Party Dress”, were published by “Serpent’s Tail” in London) and numerous exhibition of his visual work have been mounted throughout Europe. The response to his work has often been reassuringly strong. Exhibitions in Berlin, Amsterdam, and Zurich were particularly well reviewed and attended.      Since the mid-eighties the irrepressible Coyne had instigated and been involved in numerous special projects