Charlotte Church (born Charlotte Maria Reed on 21 February 1986) is a Welsh singer-songwriter, actress and television presenter. She rose to fame in childhood as a classical singer before branching into pop music in 2005. By 2007, she had sold more than 10,500,000 albums worldwide and is said to be worth as much as £20m. She recently hosted the third series of her Channel 4 chat show The Charlotte Church Show. Church currently has two children, Ruby Megan Henson and Dexter Lloyd Henson.      Life and music career      Early life      Charlotte Church was born Charlotte Maria Reed[2] in Llandaff, a district of Cardiff, Wales.[3] She was raised Roman Catholic by her mother, Maria, who was separated from Church’s biological father, Stephen Reed. Church was adopted by her mother’s second husband, James Church in 1998. Her break came at 11 when she sang “Pie Jesu” over the telephone on the television show “This Morning” in 1997, followed by her performance on ITV’s Big, Big Talent Show in 1997[4]. This led to concerts at Cardiff Arms Park, the Royal Albert Hall and opening for Shirley Bassey in Antwerp. She also received a vocal scholarship to Howell’s School Llandaff in Cardiff where she started in 1998. She balanced performing and school with help from tutors for when she was on the road and said in many interviews that she was “just like every other girl her age”.      1998–Present: Classical career      Church was then introduced to the Cardiff impresario, Jonathan Shalit, who became her manager and negotiated a contract with Sony BMG. Her first album, Voice of an Angel was a collection of arias, sacred songs, and traditional pieces that sold millions worldwide and made her the youngest artist with a No. 1 album on the British classical crossover charts.      Church appeared on PBS specials. Her self-titled second album also included operatic, religious, and traditional tracks. One, the soaring and inspirational Just Wave Hello, was the centrepiece of a millennium-themed ad campaign for the Ford Motor Company. The song’s full-length video, featuring Church, won acclaim at the Detroit Auto Show and introduced her to new fans. The track reached #31 in her native UK.      In 2000, she released Dream a Dream, an album of Christmas carols. It included Church’s first foray into a more pop-influenced style in the title track Dream a Dream, borrowing the melody from Fauré’s Pavane and featuring young American country singer Billy Gilman. Church also sang with Gilman in “Sleigh Ride” on his CD Classic Christmas.      In 2001, Church added more pop, swing, and Broadway with her album Enchantment. That year, movie audiences heard Church for the first time in the 2001 Ron Howard film A Beautiful Mind. Celine Dion was beginning a concert engagement in Las Vegas and was not available to perform the film’s end title song, “All Love Can Be”, composer James Horner enlisted Church and the song was re-written for her vocal range