Duane Eddy (April 26, 1938) is a Grammy Award-winning American guitarist. In the late 1950s and early 1960s he had a string of hit records, produced by Lee Hazlewood, which were noted for their characteristically “twangy” sound, including “Rebel Rouser”, “Peter Gunn”, and “Because They’re Young”. He had sold 12 million records by 1963. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994.      Born in Corning, New York, he began playing the guitar at the age of five. In 1951 his family moved to Tucson, and then to Coolidge, Arizona. At the age of 16 he obtained a Chet Atkins model Gretsch guitar, and formed a duo, Jimmy and Duane, with his friend Jimmy Delbridge (who later recorded as Jimmy Dell). While performing at local radio station KCKY they met disc jockey Lee Hazlewood, who produced the duo’s single, “Soda Fountain Girl”, recorded and released in 1955 in Phoenix. Hazlewood then produced Sanford Clark’s 1956 hit, “The Fool”, featuring guitarist Al Casey, while Eddy and Delbridge performed and appeared on radio stations in Phoenix before joining Buddy Long’s Western Melody Boys, playing country music in and around the city.      Eddy devised a technique of playing lead on his guitar’s bass strings to produce a low, reverberant “twangy” sound. In November 1957, Eddy recorded an instrumental, “Movin’ n’ Groovin’”, co-written by Eddy and Hazlewood. As the Phoenix studio had no echo chamber, Hazlewood bought a 2,000 gallon water storage tank which he used as an echo chamber to accentuate the “twangy” guitar sound. In 1958, Eddy signed a recording contract with Lester Sill and Lee Hazlewood to record in Phoenix at the Audio Recorders studio. Sill and Hazlewood leased the tapes of all the singles and albums to the Philadelphia- based Jamie Records.   “Movin’ n’ Groovin’” reached number 72 on the Billboard Hot 100 in early 1958; the opening riff, borrowed from Chuck Berry’s “Brown Eyed Handsome Man,” was itself copied a few years later by The Beach Boys on “Surfin’ U.S.A.”. For the follow-up, “Rebel ‘Rouser”, the record featured overdubbed saxophone by Los Angeles session musician Gil Bernal, and yells and handclaps by doo-wop group The Rivingtons. The tune became Eddy’s breakthrough hit, reaching number 6 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. It sold over one million copies, earning Eddy his first gold disc.   Eddy had a succession of hit records over the next few years, and his band members, including Steve Douglas, saxophonist Jim Horn and keyboard player Larry Knechtel would go on to work as part of Phil Spector’s Wrecking Crew. According to writer Richie Unterberger, “The singles - ‘Peter Gunn,’ ‘Cannonball,’ ‘Shazam,’ and ‘Forty Miles of Bad Road’ were probably the best - also did their part to help keep the raunchy spirit of rock & roll alive, during a time in which it was in danger of being watered down