Colbie Marie Caillat (born in Newbury Park, California, on May 28, 1985) is an American pop singer-songwriter and guitarist. She debuted in 2007 with her album Coco, which included hit singles “Bubbly”, “Realize”, and “The Little Things”. In 2008, she recorded a duet with [Jason Mraz](http://www.last.fm/music/Jason+Mraz), “Lucky”, which won a Grammy. Caillat released her second album, Breakthrough, in August 2009. Breakthrough was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 2010 Grammy Awards. She was also part of the group that won Album of the Year at the 2010 Grammys for her background vocals and writing on [Taylor Swift](http://www.last.fm/music/Taylor+Swift)’s Fearless album. She has sold over six million albums worldwide and sold over 10 million singles. In 2009, Billboard magazine’s 94th-best-selling music artist of the 2000–2009 decade.      Caillat started her singing debut at an early age (11) with special performances around her house. Within weeks she ventured out to talent shows and school performances. Her parents, who would call her “little bird,” would wake up in the early morning to find her singing her heart out. With the help of her parents, she was charmed into the idea that she had singing potential and began lessons with a vocal coach.      Caillat grew up in Malibu, California, United States and other cities in Ventura County. As a child, she was surrounded by music. Her father, Ken Caillat, is most notably remembered for Co-Production and Engineer credits on Fleetwood Mac’s “Rumours,” among others. Every sound of Colbie’s soulful style unfolds a story of her many travels through life.      At the age of fifteen something happened to Caillat that would change her life completely - she met Michael Blue, a producer and engineer located in Westlake Village, Ca. At the time, Michael, having worked with artists such as Augustana, Five for Fighting, and Carrie Underwood, was working on Runway music for St. John Knit’s seasonal clothing lines. To cut a long story short, Michael took Caillat under his wing and began to use her voice on the tracks he was producing. Within the first season he knew she was something amazing and started producing and collaborating on additional songs with Colbie. Then, at the age of 19, Caillat wrote her first song on the guitar, and she has never stopped since.      Caillat expanded her musical knowledge by working with some of Los Angeles’ singer-songwriters, learning from artists like Jason Reeves and Tim Fagan. Jason Reeves has co-written many of Colbie’s songs. She gained initial attention in 2007   <http://www.colbiecaillatmusic.com/>  