Even though his voice rarely goes above casual speaking volume, when C-Murder talks, he speaks volumes. Born Corey Miller and raised in New Orleans, a city known for both its good times and crimes, C-Murder adopted his provocative name seeing murders, amongst other ruthless activities. A product of the notorious Calliope Projects, C was able to escape being just another statistic by aligning with his entrepreneur brother Percy Miller, also known to the world as No Limit Record’s CEO and founder Master P. Throughout the mid to late 1990’s No Limit wreaked havoc on the music industry setting gold and platinum standards for almost every album they released. Before becoming one of the most popular solo artists on the label, C-Murder debuted as a member of TRU alongside his brothers P and Silkk The Shocker. The trio put themselves and their label on the national map with their 1995 album True which spurned the worldwide anthem “I’m Bout It, Bout It.” Following TRU’s groundbreaking 1997 album Tru 2 Da Game, C-Murder embarked on what would become a successful solo career. His first album, 1998’s Life Or Death proved to listeners that C was able to hold his own weight using a spectrum of influences ranging from Special Ed to Ice-T to 2Pac, showing that while he had a rough exterior to use in his favor, he had also had immense talent working for him too. His follow- ups, 1999’s Bossalinie, 2000’s Trapped In Crime and an appearance later that year on the 504 Boys’ smash “Wobble, Wobble” would only broaden his fanbase and cement his place in Southern Rap’s hierarchy. C-Murder would go on to follow his brother Master P’s entrepreneur footsteps by founding TRU Records and releasing two more albums 2001’s C-P-3.com and 2002’s Tru Dawgs—with controversy following each one. In 2001 C was indicted on an attempted murder charge for a shooting incident outside of a Baton Rouge nightclub. While out on bond, C-Murder was charged with second-degree murder over a shooting outside of another Louisiana nightclub. Facing two life-altering allegations simultaneously, C’s recording career came to a screeching halt. Sentenced to life for the latter charge, C decided to change his name to C-Miller. He went on to sign with Koch Records to put out some of his previously unreleased material but opted to go back to his original name by the time 2005’s Truest Shit I Ever Said hit shelves. “C-Murder is in my heart, I always knew in the back of my head what it was,” says C about his decision. “It’s never crossed my mind to change. Anyone who knows me knows I am who I am. I’ve been through a lot but I got heart with it too. To let the system take me down, I’ll be a failure.” Literally TRU to his word, the system did not take C-Murder down. Only serving a couple years of his life sentence, C’s second-degree murder conviction was overturned in favor of a retrial