Philadelphia native Bahamadia has lived and breathed music for years. In fact, many influential musical scholars credit her as being one of the original MC’s to gain Philly international acceptance in the “hip-hop” community in a major way. Initially a Dj, Bahamadia switched trades when MC’s such as Sha-Rock (FUNKY 4+1 MORE), Lady B, and Salt & Pepa entered the rap game. Becoming one of the most sought after lyricists on the underground scene, Bahamadia earned the respect that allows her to declare in freestyle verse, “I’mma rap fanatic… phenomenal at it a syllable savage written or off the cabbage this chick is bananas.” Her formidable rhyme skills, unceasingly honed since the earliest days of rap, and her progressive musical outlook, make her more than just an incredible MC. Bahamadia is an innovative talent acknowledged in various musical genres as a forerunner of tomorrow’s music.      While Bahamadia has been consistently active in the recording industry since   her introduction in 1996, she has (amazingly) only two solo album releases   to her credit. First was the now “classic” EMI Records release “KOLLAGE”, which she described as “various sound blends and textures of my interpretation of hip-hop music that encompasses topics of importance to me.” “KOLLAGE”, which was the first LP ever written/co-produced entirely by a female hip-hop artist, generated the 1996 SOUL TRAIN LADY OF SOUL award nomination for BEST NEW R&B/RAP ARTIST.   Bahamadia ‘s second solo project, the critically acclaimed “BB QUEEN”, was   released in the year 2000 on the indie label Good Vibe Recordings. “BB   QUEEN” was also the debut of multi-talented Virgin Recording artist Dwele.      In addition to being a respected songwriter/producer, Bahamadia serves as a   positive role model for, and mentor of, many upcoming artist. She is a   regular participant in educational lectures at universities, as well as in   music conferences and seminars. She has been a contributing writer for   Stress Magazine in New York City. Her historic weekly radio show at   Philadelphia’s 103.9FM, “BAHAMADIA’S B-SIDES”(circa 1997-1999), reigned as   one of the highest rated radio shows in Philadelphia. ” BAHAMADIA’S B-SIDES”   gave Philly radio listeners their first taste of then unknown artist like   Eminem, Mos Def, and many of the Rawkus Records roster of artist during the   late 1990’s. In a nutshell, “B-SIDES” showcased underground talent worldwide   and served as a template for taste-maker forums such as “Now Hear This”   presented by fellow Philadelphians The Roots. In Bahamadia’s words, “the   show was designed to nurture grass-roots culture.”      Bahamadia has collaborated with a wide variety of her musical   contemporaries