Mary Frances “Skeeter” Davis (December 30, 1931 – September 19, 2004) was a country music singer and a member of the Grand Ole Opry radio show for more than 40 years. She was best known for her hit song “The End of the World” (1963), one of the most popular American records of the 1960’s. One of the first women to achieve major stardom in the country music field as a solo vocalist, she was an acknowledged influence on Tammy Wynette and Dolly Parton.      Mary Frances Penick was born on December 30, 1931 in the small Appalachian town of Dry Ridge, Kentucky. As a child, her grandfather nicknamed her “Skeeter” because she was always active and buzzing around like a mosquito. She got her start in music as part of the duo, The Davis Sisters, along with childhood friend, Betty Jack Davis. Thus, Skeeter Davis was born to the rest of the world.      The Davis Sisters sang in the local Lexington, Kentucky area and appeared on local radio WLAX in 1949. From there, they earned radio and television appearances in Detroit, Cincinnati and Wheeling, WV, where they were part of the WWVA Wheeling Jamboree.      In 1952, Skeeter and Betty Jack recorded for Fortune, but won a recording contract with RCA the following year and achieved their first chart success. “I Forgot More Than You’ll Ever Know” went to number one on the U.S. country chart and number eighteen on the U.S. pop chart.      Sadly, on August 23, 1953, Skeeter and Betty Jack were involved in a serious car accident in which Betty Jack died and Skeeter was critically injured. It took Skeeter more than a year to recover both physically and mentally. With great difficulty and a lot of persuasion, Skeeter returned to singing with Betty Jack’s sister, Georgia Davis, to briefly resume the Davis Sisters’ act. But, within a year, the duo broke up and Skeeter pursued a solo career.      She continued to record on the RCA label where she worked with Eddy Arnold and Elvis Presley. In 1955, she toured for RCA on the Caravan of the Stars. Davis teamed up with producer, Chet Atkins and scored her first solo country chart hit in 1958 with “Lost To A Geisha Girl.” This was during a time when the female acts were surging forward with “response” songs to some of the biggest hits by male artists. As Kitty Wells had answered Hank Thompson’s “Honky Tonk Angels,” with “It Wasn’t God Who Made Honky Tonk Angels” in 1952, Skeeter Davis put out this answer to Hank Locklin’s “Geisha Girl.”      A few years later, Davis recorded another answer to a Hank Locklin song and gained another huge hit. Locklin sang “Please Help Me I’m Falling” and Davis’ response was, “I Can’t Help You, I’m Falling Too.”      In 1959, Davis achieved one of her greatest ambitions when she moved to Nashville and became a regular member of the Grand Ole Opry. In 1960, she married WSM personality, Ralph Emery, but the tumultuous marriage ended in 1964.      During the 1960’s, Davis was one of RCA’s most successful country artists. She harvested 26 U.S